National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 1 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
National Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
CIN - U10200WB1906GOI001713 
IRDAI Regn. No. – 58 
 
           Issuing Office 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy  
 
Whereas the Proposer designated in the schedule hereto has by a Proposal together with Declaration, which shall be the basis of 
this contract and is deemed to be incorporated herein, has applied to National Insurance Company Ltd. (hereinafter called the 
Company), for the insurance hereinafter set forth, in respect of person(s)/ family members named in the schedule hereto 
(hereinafter called the Insured Persons) and has paid the premium as consideration for such insurance. 
 
1 PREAMBLE 
The Company undertakes that if during the Policy Period, any Insured Person shall suffer any illness or disease (hereinafter called 
Illness) or sustain any bodily injury due to an Accident (hereinafter called Injury) requiring Hospitalisation of such Insured  
Person(s) for In-Patient Care at any hospital/nursing home (hereinafter called Hospital) or for Day Care Treatment at any Day 
Care Center or to undergo treatment under Domiciliary Hospitalisation, following the Medical Advice of a duly qualified Medical 
Practitioner, the Company shall indemnify the Hospital or the Insured, Reasonable and Customary Charges incurred for Medically 
Necessary Treatment towards the Coverage mentioned herein. 
Provided further that, the amount payable under the Policy in respect of all such claims during each Policy Year of the Policy 
Period shall be subject to the Definitions, Terms, Exclusions, Conditions contained herein and limits as shown in the Table of 
Benefits, and shall not exceed the Floater Sum Insured in respect of the Insured family. 
 
2 DEFINITIONS 
2.1 Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means. 
 
2.2 Age / Aged means completed years on last birthday as on Policy commencement date. 
 
2.3 AIDS means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, a condition characterised by a combination of signs and symptoms, 
caused by Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), which attacks and weakens the body’s immune system making the HIV-
positive person susceptible to life threatening conditions or other conditions, as may be specified from time to time. 
 
2.4 Any One Illness means continuous period of illness and it includes relapse within forty five days from the date of last 
consultation with the hospital where treatment has been taken. 
 
2.5 AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary, 
Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable and having 
facilities for carrying out treatment procedures and medical or surgical / para-surgical interventions or both under the 
supervision of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s)  on day care  basis without in-patient services and must comply with 
all the following criterion: 
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation theatre where surgical procedures 
are to be carried out; 
iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company’s authorized 
representative. 
 
2.6 AYUSH Treatment refers to the medical and / or Hospitalisation treatments given Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, 
Siddha and Homeopathy systems. 
 
2.7 AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures and interventions are 
carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following: 
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital or 
b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government/ Central Council of Indian 
Medicine/ Central Council for Homeopathy; or 
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognized system of medicine, 
registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified registered 
AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds; 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required;  
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company’s authorized 
representative 
 
2.8 Break in policy means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing Policy Period due date, when the premium due 
for renewal on a given policy or instalment premium due is not paid on or before the premium renewal date or grace period. 
 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 2 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
2.9 Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the Company to the Insured where the payments of the costs of treatment 
undergone by the Insured in accordance with the Policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the Network Provider or a 
Non Network Provider to the extent pre-authorization approved. 
 
2.10 Condition Precedent means a Policy term or condition upon which the Company’s liability by the Policy is conditional upon. 
 
2.11 Contract means prospectus, proposal, Policy, and the policy schedule. Any alteration with the mutual consent of the insured 
person and the insurer can be made only by a duly signed and sealed endorsement on the Policy. 
 
2.12 Congenital anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with reference to form, 
structure or position: 
a) Internal Congenital Anomaly 
Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body. 
b) External Congenital Anomaly 
Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body. 
 
2.13 Co-payment means a cost-sharing requirement by the Policy that provides that the insured shall bear a specified percentage of 
the admissible claim amount. A co-payment does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
 
2.14 Day Care Centre means any institution established for day care treatment of disease/ injuries or a medical setup within a 
hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a 
registered and qualified medical practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criteria as under: 
i. 
has qualified nursing staff under its employment; 
ii. has qualified medical practitioner (s) in charge; 
iii. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out 
iv. maintains daily records of patients and shall make these accessible to the Company’s authorized personnel. 
 
2.15 Day Care Treatment means medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is: 
i. 
undertaken under general or local anesthesia in a hospital/day care centre in less than twenty-four hrs because of 
technological advancement, and 
ii. which would have otherwise required a hospitalisation of more than twenty-four hours.  
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 
 
2.16 Dental Treatment means a treatment carried out by a dental practitioner including examinations, fillings (where appropriate), 
crowns, extractions and surgery excluding any form of cosmetic surgery/implants. 
 
2.17 Diagnosis means diagnosis by a medical practitioner, supported by clinical, radiological, histological and laboratory evidence, 
acceptable to the Company. 
 
2.18 Domiciliary Hospitalisation means medical treatment for an illness /injury which in the normal course would require care 
and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined at home under any of the following circumstances. 
i. 
the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a hospital, or 
ii. the patient takes treatment at home on account of non availability of bed/ room in a hospital. 
 
2.19 Family members means spouse, children and parents of the insured, covered by the Policy. 
 
2.20 Floater Sum Insured means the sum insured, as mentioned in the Schedule, available to all the insured persons, for any and 
all claims made in the aggregate during each policy year. 
 
2.21 Grace Period means the specified period of time, immediately following the premium due date during which premium 
payment can be made to renew or continue a policy in force without loss of continuity benefits pertaining to Waiting Periods 
and coverage of Pre-Existing Diseases. The Grace Period for payment of the premium shall be thirty days. 
Coverage shall not be available during the period for which no premium is received. 
 
2.22 Hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of disease/ injuries and which has been 
registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or 
under the enactments specified under Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act, OR complies with all minimum criteria as 
under: 
i. 
has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock; 
ii. has at least ten inpatient beds, in those towns having a population of less than ten lacs and fifteen  inpatient beds in 
all other places; 
iii. has qualified medical practitioner (s) in charge round the clock; 
iv. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out  
v. maintains daily records of patients and shall make these accessible to the Company’s authorized personnel. 
 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 3 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
2.23 Hospitalisation means admission in a Hospital or mental health establishment for a minimum period of twenty four (24) 
consecutive ‘Inpatient care’ hours except for procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less than 
twenty four (24) consecutive hours. 
 
2.24 ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which shall include the 
expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU patient including monitoring devices, critical care 
nursing and intensivist charges. 
 
2.25 ID Card means the card issued to the insured person by the TPA for availing Cashless Facility. 
 
2.26 Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological function 
which manifests itself during the policy period and requires medical treatment. 
i. 
Acute Condition means a disease, illness or injury that is likely to response quickly to treatment which aims to return 
the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the disease/ illness/ injury which leads to full 
recovery. 
ii. Chronic Condition means a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics 
a) it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and / or tests 
b) it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
c) it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
d) it continues indefinitely 
e) it comes back or is likely to come back. 
 
2.27 In-patient Care means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 24 hours for a covered 
event. 
 
2.28 Insured / Insured Person means person(s) named in the schedule of the Policy. 
 
2.29 Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the constant supervision of a 
dedicated medical practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who 
are in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more 
sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards. 
 
2.30 Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding disease solely and directly caused by external, violent and visible and 
evident means which is verified and certified by a medical practitioner. 
 
2.31 Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issue of any prescription or repeat 
prescription. 
 
2.32 Medical Expenses means those expenses that an insured person has necessarily and actually incurred for medical treatment 
on account of disease/ injury on the advice of a medical practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable 
if the insured person had not been insured and no more than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged 
for the same medical treatment. 
 
2.33 Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part of a stay in hospital which: 
i. 
is required for the medical management of the disease/ injuries suffered by the insured person; 
ii. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, duration, 
or intensity; 
iii. must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner; 
iv. must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by the medical 
community in India. 
 
2.34 Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the medical council of any state or Medical Council 
of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State Government and is 
thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of the licence. 
 
2.35 Migration means a facility provided to policyholders (including all members under family cover and group policies), to 
transfer the credits gained for pre-existing diseases and specific waiting periods from one health insurance policy to another 
with the same insurer. 
 
2.36 Network Provider means Hospitals or Day Care Centres enlisted by the Company or jointly by the Company and a TPA to 
provide medical services to an insured person on payment by a cashless facility. 
 
2.37 New Born Baby means baby born during the policy period and is aged upto 90 days. 
 
2.38 Non- Network means any Hospital, Day Care Centre that is not part of the network. 
 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 4 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
2.39 Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the Company or TPA through any of the recognized modes 
of communication. 
 
2.40 Out-Patient Treatment means treatment in which the insured person visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like a 
consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advise of a medical practitioner and the insured person is not 
admitted as a day care patient or in-patient. 
 
2.41 Policy Period means period of one policy year/ two policy years/ three policy years as mentioned in the schedule for which 
the Policy is issued. 
 
2.42 Policy Year means a period of twelve months beginning from the date of commencement of the policy period and ending on 
the last day of such twelve month period. For the purpose of subsequent years, policy year shall mean a period of twelve months 
commencing from the end of the previous policy year and lapsing on the last day of such twelve-month period, till the policy 
period, as mentioned in the schedule. 
 
2.43 Preferred Provider Network (PPN) means a network of hospitals which have agreed to a cashless packaged pricing for listed 
procedures for the insured person. The list is available on the website of the Company/TPA and subject to amendment from 
time to time. For the updated list please visit the website of the Company/TPA. Reimbursement of expenses incurred in PPN 
for the procedures (as listed under PPN package) shall be subject to the rates applicable to PPN package pricing. 
 
2.44 Pre existing disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease 
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 36 months prior to the effective date of the Policy issued by the Company or 
its reinstatement, or 
b) For which Medical Advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 36 months prior 
to the effective date of the Policy issued by the Company or its reinstatement. 
 
2.45 Portability means a facility provided to the policyholders (including all members under family cover), to transfer the credits 
gained for, Pre-Existing Diseases and Specific Waiting Periods from one insurer to another insurer. 
 
2.46 Psychiatrist means a medical practitioner possessing a post-graduate degree or diploma in psychiatry awarded by an university 
recognised by the University Grants Commission established under the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, or awarded 
or recognised by the National Board of Examinations and included in the First Schedule to the Indian Medical Council Act, 
1956, or recognised by the Medical Council of India, constituted under the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, and includes, in 
relation to any State, any medical officer who having regard to his knowledge and experience in psychiatry, has been declared 
by the Government of that State to be a psychiatrist. 
 
2.47 Qualified Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing Council of 
any state in India. 
 
2.48 Reasonable and Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard charges for the 
specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into 
account the nature of the disease/ injury involved. 
 
2.49 Room Rent means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and boarding expenses and shall include the associated 
charges. 
 
2.50 Schedule means a document forming part of the Policy, containing details including name of the insured person, age, relation 
of the insured person, sum insured, premium paid and the policy period. 
 
2.51 Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of a disease or injury, 
correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a 
hospital or day care centre by a medical practitioner. 
 
2.52 Third Party Administrator (TPA) means any entity, licenced under the IRDA (Third Party Administrators - Health Services) 
Regulations, 2001 by the Authority, and is engaged, for a fee by the Company for the purpose of providing health services. 
 
2.53 Unproven/ Experimental Treatment means treatment, including drug therapy, which is not based on established medical 
practice in India, is experimental or unproven. 
 
2.54 Waiting Period means a period from the inception of this Policy during which specified diseases/treatment is not covered. On 
completion of the period, diseases/treatment shall be covered provided the Policy has been continuously renewed without any 
break.  
 
 
 
 
 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 5 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
3 BENEFITS COVERED UNDER THE POLICY 
3.1COVERAGE 
3.1.1 In-patient Treatment 
The Company shall indemnify the medical expenses for: 
i. 
Room charges and intensive care unit charges (including diet charges, nursing care by qualified nurse, RMO charges, 
administration charges for IV fluids/blood transfusion/injection), subject to limit as per Section 3.1.1.1 
ii. Medical practitioner(s) 
iii. Anaesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre charges, surgical appliances 
iv. Medicines and drugs  
v. Diagnostic procedures 
vi. Prosthetics and other devices or equipment if implanted internally during a surgical procedure. 
vii. Dental treatment, necessitated due to an injury 
viii. Plastic surgery, necessitated due to disease or injury 
ix. Hormone replacement therapy, if medically necessary 
x. Vitamins and tonics, forming part of treatment for disease/injury as certified by the attending medical practitioner 
xi. Circumcision, necessitated for treatment of a disease or injury 
 
3.1.1.1 Limit for Room Charges and Intensive Care Unit Charges  
Room charges and intensive care unit charges per day shall be payable up to the limit as shown in the Table of Benefits, for Plan A 
only. However, the limit shall not apply if the treatment is undergone for a listed procedure in a Preferred Provider Network (PPN) 
as a package. 
 
Note: 
Listed procedures and Preferred Provider Network list are dynamic in nature, and will be updated in the Company’s website from 
time to time. 
 
 
3.1.1.2 Limit for Cataract Surgery  
The Company’s liability for cataract surgery shall be up to the limit as shown in the Table of Benefits, for Plan A only. However, 
the limit shall not apply if the treatment is undergone for a listed procedure in a Preferred Provider Network (PPN) as a package. 
 
3.1.1.3 Treatment related to participation as a non-professional in hazardous or adventure sports 
Expenses related to treatment necessitated due to participation as a non-professional in hazardous or adventure sports, subject to 
Maximum amount admissible for Any One Illness shall be lower of 25% of Sum Insured. 
 
3.1.2 Pre Hospitalisation 
The Company shall indemnify the medical expenses incurred up to thirty days immediately before the insured person is hospitalised, 
provided that: 
i. 
such medical expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the insured person’s hospitalisation was required, and  
ii. the in-patient hospitalisation claim for such hospitalisation is admissible by the Company 
Pre hospitalisation shall be considered as part of the Hospitalisation claim. 
 
3.1.3 Post Hospitalisation 
The Company shall indemnify the medical expenses incurred up to sixty days immediately after the insured person is discharged 
from hospital, provided that: 
i. 
such medical expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the insured person’s hospitalisation was required, and 
ii. the in-patient hospitalisation claim for such hospitalisation is admissible by the Company 
Post hospitalisation shall be considered as part of the hospitalisation claim. 
 
3.1.4 Domiciliary Hospitalisation 
The Company shall Company shall indemnify the medical expenses incurred under domiciliary hospitalization, including Pre 
Hospitalisation expenses and Post Hospitalisation expenses, up to the limit as shown in the Table of Benefits. 
 
Exclusions 
Domiciliary hospitalisation shall not cover: 
i. 
Treatment of less than three days 
ii. Expenses incurred for alternative treatment 
iii. Expenses incurred for maternity or infertility 
iv. Expenses incurred for any of the following diseases; 
a) Asthma  
b) Bronchitis 
c) Chronic nephritis and nephritic syndrome 
d) Diarrhoea and all type of dysenteries including 
gastroenteritis 
e) Epilepsy 
f) 
Influenza, cough and cold 
g) All psychiatric or psychosomatic disorders 
h) Pyrexia of unknown origin for less than ten days 
i) 
Tonsillitis and upper respiratory tract infection 
including laryngitis and pharingitis 
j) 
Arthritis, gout and rheumatism 
 
 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 6 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
3.1.5 Day Care Procedure 
The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses (including Pre and Post Hospitalisation Expenses) for Day Care Treatments 
requiring Hospitalization as an In-Patient for less than 24 hours undergone by the Insured Person in a Hospital/ Day Care Centre, 
but not in the Outpatient department of a Hospital. 
3.1.6 AYUSH Treatment 
The Company shall indemnify Medical Expenses incurred for Inpatient Care treatment under Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, 
Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems of medicines during each Policy Period up to the limit of Sum Insured as specified in the 
Policy Schedule in any AYUSH Hospital. 
 
 
3.1.7 Organ Donor’s Medical Expenses 
Organ Donor's Hospitalisation Expenses 
The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of an organ donor’s Hospitalisation during the Policy 
Period for harvesting of the organ donated to an Insured Person, provided that: 
i. The organ donation confirms to the Transplantation of Human Organs Act 1994 (and its amendments from time to time)  
ii. The organ is used for an Insured Person and the Insured Person has been medically advised to undergo an organ transplant 
iii. The Medical Expenses shall be incurred in respect of the organ donor as an in-patient in a Hospital. 
iv. Claim has been admitted under In-patient Treatment Section in respect of the Insured Person undergoing the organ 
transplant. 
  
Exclusions 
The Company shall not be liable to make payment for any claim under this Cover which arises for or in connection with any of the 
following: 
i. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses or Post- Hospitalization Medical Expenses of the organ donor. 
ii. Costs directly or indirectly associated with the acquisition of the donor’s organ. 
iii. Medical Expenses where the organ transplant is experimental or investigational. 
iv. Any medical treatment or complication in respect of the donor, consequent to harvesting. 
v. Any expenses related to organ transportation or preservation. 
 
3.1.8 Hospital Cash 
The Company shall pay the insured a daily hospital cash allowance up to the limit as shown in the Table of Benefits for a maximum 
of five days, provided: 
i. 
the hospitalisation exceeds three days. 
ii. a claim has been admitted under In-patient Treatment Section  
Hospital Cash shall be payable for each day from the 4th day of Hospitalisation up to the 8th day of Hospitalisation only. 
Hospitalisation of less than 24 hours shall not be considered for the purpose of payment of Hospital Cash 
 
3.1.9 Ambulance 
 
The Company shall reimburse the insured the expenses incurred for ambulance charges for transportation to the hospital, or from 
one hospital to another hospital, up to the limit as shown in the Table of Benefits, provided a claim has been admitted under In-
patient Treatment Section. 
 
3.1.10 Air Ambulance 
The Company shall reimburse the insured the expenses incurred for medical evacuation of the insured person by air ambulance to 
the nearest hospital or from one hospital to another hospital following an emergency up to the limit as per the Table of Benefits, 
provided prior intimation is given to the Company/TPA, and a claim has been admitted under In-patient Treatment Section. 
 
3.1.11 Medical Emergency Reunion 
In the event of the insured person being hospitalised in a place away from the place of residence for more than five continuous days 
in an intensive care unit for any life threatening condition, the Company after obtaining confirmation from the attending medical 
practitioner, of  the need of a ‘family member’ to be present, shall reimburse the  expenses of  a round trip economy class air ticket 
for Plan B and Plan C  to allow  a family member, provided a claim has been admitted under In-patient Treatment Section. 
For the purpose of the Section, ‘family member’ shall mean spouse, children and parents of the insured person. 
 
3.1.12 Doctor’s Home Visit and Nursing Care during Post Hospitalisation 
The Company shall reimburse the insured, for medically necessary expenses incurred for doctor’s home visit charges, nursing care 
by qualified nurse during post hospitalisation up to the limit as shown in the Table of Benefits.  
 
3.1.13 Anti Rabies Vaccination  
The Company shall reimburse the insured medically necessary expenses incurred for anti-rabies vaccination up to the limit as shown 
in the Table of Benefits. Hospitalisation is not required for vaccination. 
 
3.1.14 Maternity 
 
The Company shall indemnify Maternity Expenses as described below for any female Insured Person, and also Pre-Natal and Post-
Natal Hospitalisation expenses per delivery, including expenses for necessary vaccination for New Born Baby, subject to the limit 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 7 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
as shown in the Table of Benefits. The female Insured Person should have been continuously covered for at least 24 months before 
availing this benefit. 
The New Born Baby shall be automatically covered from birth under the Sum Insured available to the mother during the 
corresponding Policy Period, for up to 3 months of age. On attaining 3 months of age, the New Born Baby shall be covered only if 
specifically included in the Policy mid-term and requisite premium paid to the Company. 
 
Cover 
Maternity Expenses means; 
a) Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during 
Hospitalization); 
b) Expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period. 
Note: Ectopic pregnancy is covered under ‘In-patient treatment’, provided such pregnancy is established by medical reports. 
  
Exclusions 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the cover in respect of Maternity Expenses incurred in connection with 
or in respect of: 
1. Covered female Insured Person below eighteen (18) years and above forty-five (45) years of age. 
2. Delivery or termination within a Waiting Period of twenty-four (24) months. However, the Waiting Period may be waived 
only in the case of delivery, miscarriage or abortion induced by accident.  
3. Delivery or lawful medical termination of pregnancy limited to two deliveries or terminations or either has been paid under 
the Policy and its Renewals. 
4. More than one delivery or lawful medical termination of pregnancy during a single Policy Period. 
5. Maternity Expenses of Surrogate Mother, unless claim is admitted under Section 3.1.15 (Infertility) 
6. Ectopic pregnancy 
7. Pre and post hospitalisation expenses, other than pre and post natal treatment. 
 
3.1.15 Infertility 
The Company shall pay to the hospital or reimburse the insured, in respect of the medical expenses of the insured and his spouse, 
if covered by the Policy, for treatment undergone as an in-patient or as a day care treatment, for procedures and/ or treatment of 
infertility, provided the Policy has been continuously in force for twenty four (24) months from the inception of the Policy or from 
the date of inclusion of the insured person, whichever is later. The medical expenses for either or both the insured person shall be 
subject to the limit as shown in the Table of Benefits.   
 
Exclusions 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment in respect of any expenses incurred in connection with or in respect of 
1. Insured and insured persons above forty five years of age. 
2. Diagnostic tests related to infertility 
3. Reversing a tubal ligation or vasectomy 
4. Preserving and storing sperms, eggs and embryos 
5. An egg donor or sperm donor 
6. Experimental treatments 
7. Any disease/ injury, other than traceable to maternity, of the surrogate mother. 
  
Conditions 
1. Expenses for advanced procedures, including IVF, GIFT, ZIFT or ICSI, shall be payable only if the Insured person has been 
unable to attain or sustain a successful pregnancy through reasonable, and medically necessary infertility treatment.  
2. Maternity expenses of the surrogate mother shall be payable under Section 3.1.14 (Maternity). Legal affidavit regarding 
intimation of surrogacy shall be submitted to the Company. 
3. Maximum of two claims shall be admissible by the Policy during the lifetime of the insured person if he has no living child 
and one claim if the insured has one living child. 
4. Any one illness limit shall not apply. 
 
Definitions for the purpose of the Section 
1. Donor means an oocyte donor or sperm donor. 
2. Embryo means a fertilized egg where cell division has commenced/ under the process and has completed the pre-embryonic 
stage. 
3. Gamete Intra-Fallopian Transfer (GIFT) means a procedure where the sperm and egg are placed inside a catheter separated 
by an air bubble and then transferred to the fallopian tube. Fertilization takes place naturally. 
4. Infertility means the inability to conceive after one year of unprotected sexual intercourse or the inability to sustain a 
successful pregnancy. However the one year period may be waived, provided a medical practitioner determines existence of a 
medical condition rendering conception impossible through unprotected sexual intercourse, including but not limited to 
congenital absence of the uterus or ovaries, absence of the uterus or ovaries due to surgical removal due to a medical condition, 
or involuntary sterilization due to chemotherapy or radiation treatments. 
5. Intra-Cytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI) means an injection of sperm into an egg for fertilisation. 
6. In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) means a process in which an egg and sperm are combined in a laboratory dish where fertilization 
occurs. The fertilized and dividing egg is transferred into the uterus of the woman. 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 8 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
7. Surrogate means a woman who carries a pregnancy for the insured person.  
8. Zygote Intra-Fallopian Transfer (ZIFT) means a procedure where the egg is fertilized in vitro and transferred to the 
fallopian tube before dividing. 
 
3.1.16 Vaccination for Children 
The Company shall reimburse the insured, the expenses incurred for vaccinations of children (up to twelve years for male child and 
up to fourteen years for female child), as listed in Annexure I, up to the limit as shown in the Table of Benefits, provided the children 
are covered by the Policy. Hospitalisation is not required for this benefit. 
 
3.1.17 HIV/ AIDS Cover 
The Company shall indemnify the Hospital or the Insured the Medical Expenses (including Pre and Post Hospitalisation Expenses) 
related to following stages of HIV infection: 
i. 
Acute HIV infection – acute flu-like symptoms 
ii. Clinical latency – usually asymptomatic or mild symptoms 
iii. AIDS – full-blown disease; CD4 < 200 
 
3.1.18 Mental Illness Cover 
The Company shall indemnify the Hospital or the Insured the Medical Expenses (including Pre and Post Hospitalisation Expenses) 
related to Mental Illnesses, provided the treatment shall be undertaken at a Hospital with a specific department for Mental Illness, 
under a Medical Practitioner qualified as Psychiatrist or a professional having a post-graduate degree (Ayurveda) in Mano Vigyan 
Avum Manas Roga or a post-graduate degree (Homoeopathy) in Psychiatry or a post-graduate degree (Unani) in Moalijat 
(Nafasiyatt) or a post-graduate degree (Siddha) in Sirappu Maruthuvam. 
 
Exclusions 
Any kind of Psychological counselling, cognitive/ family/ group/ behavior/ palliative therapy or other kinds of psychotherapy for 
which Hospitalisation is not necessary shall not be covered. 
 
3.1.19 Modern Treatment 
The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses for In-Patient Care, Domiciliary Hospitalisation or Day Care Procedure along 
with Pre Hospitalisation expenses and Post Hospitalisation expenses incurred for following Modern Treatments (wherever 
medically indicated), subject to the limit of 25% of the Sum Insured for the related modern procedure/ component/ medicine of each 
Modern Treatment during the Policy Period. 
 
Modern Treatment 
Coverage 
UAE & HIFU 
Limit is for Procedure cost only 
Balloon Sinuplasty 
Limit is for Balloon cost only 
Deep Brain Stimulation 
Limit is for implants including batteries only 
Oral Chemotherapy 
Only cost of medicines payable under this limit, other incidental charges like investigations and consultation 
charges not payable. 
Immunotherapy 
Limit is for cost of injections only. 
Intravitreal injections 
Limit is for complete treatment, including Pre & Post Hospitalization 
Robotic Surgery 
Limit is for robotic component only. 
Stereotactic Radio 
surgeries 
Limit is for radiation procedure. 
Bronchial Thermoplasty 
Limit is for complete treatment, including Pre & Post Hospitalization 
Vaporization of the 
prostrate 
Limit is for LASER component only. 
IONM 
Limit is for IONM procedure only. 
Stem cell therapy 
Limit is for complete treatment, including Pre & Post Hospitalization 
 
3.1.20 Morbid Obesity Treatment 
The Company shall indemnify the Hospital or the Insured the Medical Expenses, including Pre Hospitalisation expenses and Post 
Hospitalisation expenses incurred for surgical treatment of obesity that fulfils all the following conditions and subject to Waiting 
Period of three (03) years as per Section 4.2.f.iv: 
1. Treatment has been conducted is upon the advice of the Medical Practitioner, and 
 
2. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols, and 
3. The Insured Person is 18 years of age or older, and 
 
4. Body Mass Index (BMI) is; 
a) greater than or equal to 40 or 
 
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure of less invasive 
methods of weight loss: 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. Coronary heart disease 
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type 2 Diabetes 
 
 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 9 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
3.1.21 Correction of Refractive Error 
The Company shall indemnify the Hospital or the Insured the Medical Expenses, including Pre Hospitalisation expenses  and Post 
Hospitalisation expenses incurred for expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error equal to or 
more than 7.5 dioptres, subject to Waiting Period of two (02) years as per Section 4.2.f.iii. 
 
Note: The expenses that are not covered in this policy are placed under List-l of Annexure-II of the Policy. The list of expenses that 
are to be subsumed into room charges, or procedure charges or costs of treatment are placed under List-II, List-III and List-IV of 
Annexure-II of the Policy respectively 
Aggregate of all the benefits under 3.1.1 to 3.1.21 are subject to the Floater Sum Insured opted. 
 
3.1.22 Reinstatement of Sum Insured due to Road Traffic Accident 
In the event of the sum insured being exhausted on account of claims arising out of any injury due to road traffic accident during a 
policy year, if the Insured and/or Insured Person (s) has to subsequently incur any expenses on hospitalisation due to any other 
disease/ injury, the Company shall reinstate the sum insured as mentioned in the schedule. Reinstatement shall be allowed only once 
during the policy year and the maximum amount payable under a single claim shall not exceed the sum insured as mentioned in the 
schedule. 
 
3.2 GOOD HEALTH INCENTIVES  
3.2.1 No Claim Discount (NCD) 
On renewal of policies with a term of one year, a NCD of flat 5% shall be allowed on the * base premium, provided claims are not 
reported in the expiring Policy. 
On renewal of policies with a term exceeding one year, the NCD amount with respect to each claim free policy year shall be 
aggregated and allowed on renewal. Aggregate amount of NCD allowed shall not exceed flat 5% of the total base premium for the 
term of the policy. 
* Base premium depends on the zone and sum insured and is the aggregate of the premium for senior most insured person and other insured 
persons for a year. 
 
3.2.2 Health Check Up 
Expenses of health check up shall be reimbursed (irrespective of past claims) at the end of a block of two continuous policy years, 
provided the Policy has been continuously renewed with the Company without a break. Expenses payable are subject to the limit 
stated in the Table of Benefits.   
 
 
4 EXCLUSIONS  
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment by the Policy, in respect of any expenses incurred in connection with or in 
respect of: 
 
4.1. Pre-Existing Diseases (Excl 01) 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-Existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be excluded until the 
expiry of thirty six (36) months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first policy with us.  
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum insured increase. 
c) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability norms of the extant IRDAI 
(Health Insurance) Regulations then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of thirty six (36) months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the same being 
declared at the time of application and accepted by us. 
 
4.2. Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Excl 02) 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the expiry of 90 days/ 
one year/ two year/ three years (as specified against specific disease/ procedure) of continuous coverage after the date of 
inception of the first policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an accident 
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum insured increase. 
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre-Existing Diseases, then the longer 
of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the policy or declared and accepted without a 
specific exclusion. 
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms on portability 
stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
f) 
List of specific diseases/procedures 
i. 
90 Days Waiting Period (Life style conditions) 
a. 
Hypertension and related complications  
b. Diabetes and related complications  
c. 
Cardiac conditions 
ii. One year waiting period 
a. 
Benign ENT disorders  
b. Tonsillectomy 
c. 
Adenoidectomy 
d. Mastoidectomy 
e. 
Tympanoplasty 
 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 10 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
iii. Two years waiting period 
a. 
Cataract 
b. Benign prostatic hypertrophy 
c. 
Hernia 
d. Hydrocele 
e. 
Fissure/Fistula in anus 
f. 
Piles (Haemorrhoids) 
g. Sinusitis and related disorders 
h. Polycystic ovarian disease 
i. 
Non-infective arthritis 
j. 
Pilonidal sinus 
k. Gout and Rheumatism 
l. 
Calculus diseases 
m. Surgery of gall bladder and bile duct excluding 
malignancy 
n. Surgery 
of 
genito-urinary 
system 
excluding 
malignancy 
o. Surgery for prolapsed intervertebral disc unless 
arising from accident 
p. Surgery of varicose vein 
q. Hysterectomy 
r. 
Refractive error of the eye more than 7.5 dioptres 
s. 
Congenital Internal Anomaly (not applicable for 
new born baby) 
Above diseases/treatments under 4.2.f).i, ii, iii shall be covered after the specified Waiting Period, provided they are not Pre Existing 
Diseases. 
 
iv. Three years waiting period 
Following diseases shall be covered after three years of continuous cover from the inception of the policy: 
a. 
Treatment for joint replacement unless arising from accident 
b. Osteoarthritis and osteoporosis 
c. 
Morbid Obesity and its complications 
d. Stem Cell Therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions to be covered. 
 
4.3. First 30 days waiting period (Excl 03) 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within thirty (30) days from the first policy commencement date shall be 
excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided the same are covered. 
b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve (12) months. 
c) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in the event of granting higher sum 
insured subsequently.  
 
4.4. Investigation & Evaluation (Excl 04) 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are excluded. 
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment are excluded. 
 
4.5. Rest Cure, Rehabilitation and Respite Care (Excl 05) 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also includes: 
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with activities of daily living such as 
bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons. 
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs. 
 
4.6. Obesity/ Weight Control (Excl 06) 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
1) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor  
2) The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols 
3) The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
4) Body Mass Index (BMI): 
a. 
greater than or equal to 40, or 
b. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following failure of less 
invasive   methods of weight loss: 
 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. Coronary heart disease 
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
 
4.7. Change-of-Gender Treatments (Excl 07) 
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those of the opposite 
sex. 
 
4.8. Cosmetic or Plastic Surgery (Excl 08) 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction following an Accident, 
Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this 
to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
 
4.9. Hazardous or Adventure Sports (Excl 09) 
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in hazardous or adventure sports, including 
but not limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, 
sky diving, deep-sea diving. 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 11 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
4.10. 
Breach  of Law (Excl 10) 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach 
of law with criminal intent. 
 
4.11. 
Excluded Providers (Excl11) 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically excluded by 
the Company and disclosed in its website / notified to the policyholders are not admissible. However, in case of life threatening 
situations following an accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. 
 
4.12. 
Drug/Alcohol Abuse (Excl 12) 
Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences thereof (Excl 12) 
 
4.13. 
Non Medical Admissions (Excl 13) 
Treatments received in health hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private beds registered as a nursing 
home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons (Excl 13) 
 
4.14. 
Vitamins, Tonics (Excl 14) 
Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but not limited to Vitamins, minerals 
and organic substances unless prescribed by a medical practitioners part of hospitalization claim or day care procedure 
 
4.15. 
Refractive Error (Excl 15) 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres. 
 
4.16. 
Unproven Treatments (Excl16) 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments 
are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support their effectiveness. 
 
4.17. 
Hormone Replacement Therapy 
Expenses for hormone replacement therapy, unless part of Medically Necessary Treatment, except for Puberty and Menopause 
related Disorders 
 
4.18. 
General Debility, Congenital External Anomaly 
General debility, Congenital external anomaly. 
 
4.19. 
Self Inflicted Injury 
Treatment for intentional self-inflicted injury, attempted suicide. 
 
4.20. 
Stem Cell Surgery 
Stem Cell Surgery (except Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions). 
 
4.21. 
Circumcision 
Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of a disease (if not excluded otherwise) or necessitated due to an accident. 
 
4.22. 
Vaccination or Inoculation. 
Vaccination or inoculation unless forming part of treatment and requires Hospitalisation, except as and to the extent provided for 
under Section 3.1.13 (Anti Rabies Vaccination), Section 3.1.14.iv and Section 3.1.16 (Vaccination for Children). 
 
4.23. 
Massages, Steam Bath, Alternative Treatment (Other than AYUSH treatment) 
Massages, steam bath, expenses for alternative treatments (other than AYUSH treatment), acupuncture, acupressure, magneto-
therapy and similar treatment. 
 
 
4.24. 
Dental treatment 
Dental treatment, unless necessitated due to an Injury. 
 
4.25. 
Out Patient Department (OPD) 
Any expenses incurred on OPD. 
 
 
4.26. 
Stay in Hospital which is not Medically Necessary. 
Stay in hospital which is not medically necessary. 
 
4.27. 
Spectacles, Contact Lens, Hearing Aid, Cochlear Implants 
Spectacles, contact lens, hearing aid, cochlear implants. 
 
4.28. 
Non Prescription Drug 
Drugs not supported by a prescription, private nursing charges, referral fee to family physician, outstation 
doctor/surgeon/consultants’ fees and similar expenses. 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 12 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
4.29. 
Treatment not Related to Disease for which Claim is Made 
Treatment which the insured person was on before Hospitalisation for the Illness/Injury, different from the one for which claim for 
Hospitalisation has been made. 
 
4.30. 
Equipments 
External/durable medical/non-medical equipments/instruments of any kind used for diagnosis/ treatment including CPAP, CAPD, 
infusion pump, ambulatory devices such as walker, crutches, belts, collars, caps, splints, slings, braces, stockings, diabetic foot-
wear, glucometer, thermometer and similar related items and any medical equipment which could be used at home subsequently. 
 
4.31. 
Items of personal comfort 
Items of personal comfort and convenience including telephone, television, aya, barber, beauty services, baby food, cosmetics, 
napkins, toiletries, guest services. 
 
4.32. 
Service charge/ registration fee 
Any kind of service charges including surcharges, admission fees, registration charges and similar charges levied by the hospital. 
 
4.33. 
Home visit charges 
Home visit charges during Pre and Post Hospitalisation of doctor, attendant and nurse, except as and to the extent provided for under 
Section 3.1.12 (Doctor’s Home Visit and Nursing Care during Post Hospitalisation). 
 
4.34. 
War 
War (whether declared or not) and war like occurrence or invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities, civil war, rebellion, 
revolutions, insurrections, mutiny, military or usurped power, seizure, capture, arrest, restraints and detainment of all kinds. 
 
4.35. 
Radioactivity 
Nuclear, chemical or biological attack or weapons, contributed to, caused by, resulting from or from any other cause or event 
contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss, claim or expense. For the purpose of this exclusion:  
 
a) Nuclear attack or weapons means the use of any nuclear weapon or device or waste or combustion of nuclear fuel or the 
emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of fissile/ fusion material emitting a level of radioactivity capable of causing 
any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
b) Chemical attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any solid, liquid or gaseous 
chemical compound which, when suitably distributed, is capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
c) Biological attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any pathogenic (disease 
producing) micro-organisms and/or biologically produced toxins (including genetically modified organisms and chemically 
synthesized toxins) which are capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
 
4.36. 
Treatment taken outside the geographical limits of India 
 
5 CONDITIONS 
 
5.1 Disclosure of Information 
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis 
description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the policyholder. 
(Explanation: "Material facts" for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information sought by the company in the 
proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in the context of underwriting the risk) 
 
5.2 Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability 
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company to make any payment for claim(s) 
arising under the policy. 
 
5.3 Communication 
i. 
All communication should be made in writing. 
ii. For policies serviced by TPA, ID card, PPN/network provider related issues to be communicated to the TPA at the address 
mentioned in the schedule. For claim serviced by the Company, the Policy related issues to be communicated to the Policy 
issuing office of the Company at the address mentioned in the schedule. 
iii. Any change of address, state of health or any other change affecting any of the insured person, shall be communicated to the 
Policy issuing office of the Company at the address mentioned in the schedule 
iv. The Company or TPA shall communicate to the insured at the address mentioned in the schedule. 
 
5.4 Physical Examination 
Any medical practitioner authorised by the Company shall be allowed to examine the insured person in the event of any alleged 
injury or disease requiring hospitalisation when and as often as the same may reasonably be required on behalf of the Company. 
 
5.5 Claim Procedure 
5.5.1 Notification of Claim 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 13 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
In the event of hospitalisation/ domiciliary hospitalisation, the insured person/insured person’s representative shall notify the TPA 
(if claim is processed by TPA)/Company (if claim is processed by the Company) in writing by letter, e-mail, fax providing all 
relevant information relating to claim including plan of treatment, policy number etc. within the prescribed  time limit. 
 
Notification of claim for Cashless facility 
TPA must be informed: 
In the event of planned hospitalization 
At least seventy two hours prior to the insured person’s 
admission  
In the event of emergency hospitalization 
Within twenty four hours of the insured person’s admission  
 
Notification of claim for Reimbursement 
Company/TPA must be informed: 
In the event of planned hospitalisation/ domiciliary 
hospitalistion/  
At least seventy two hours prior to the insured person’s 
admission to hospital/ inception of domiciliary hospitalisation 
In the event of emergency hospitalisation/ domiciliary 
hospitalistion 
Within twenty four hours of the insured person’s admission to 
hospital/ inception of domiciliary hospitalisation 
 
Notification of claim for vaccination 
Company/TPA must be informed: 
In the event of Anti Rabies Vaccination/ Vaccination for 
Children 
At least twenty four hours prior to the vaccination 
 
5.5.2 Procedure for Cashless Claims  
i. 
Cashless facility can be availed, if TPA service is opted. 
ii. Treatment may be taken in a Network Provider / PPN or Non Network Provider and is subject to pre-authorisation by the TPA. 
Updated list of network provider/PPN is available on the website of the Company and the TPA mentioned in the schedule. 
iii. Cashless request form available with the network provider/PPN and TPA shall be completed and sent to the TPA for 
authorization. 
iv. The TPA upon getting cashless request form and related medical information from the insured person/ network provider/PPN 
shall issue a pre-authorization letter within an hour to the hospital after verification. 
v. At the time of discharge, the insured person has to verify and sign the discharge papers, pay for non-medical and inadmissible 
expenses. 
vi. The TPA shall grant the final authorization within three hours of the receipt of discharge authorization request from the 
Hospital 
vii. The TPA reserves the right to deny pre-authorization in case the insured person is unable to provide the relevant medical details.  
viii. In case of denial of cashless access, the insured person may obtain the treatment as per treating doctor’s advice and submit the 
claim documents to the TPA for processing. 
 
5.5.3 Procedure for Reimbursement of Claims 
For reimbursement of claims the insured may submit the necessary documents to TPA (if claim is processed by TPA)/Company (if 
claim is processed by the Company) within the prescribed time limit. 
 
5.5.3.1 Procedure for Reimbursement of Claims under Domiciliary Hospitalisation 
For reimbursement of claims under domiciliary hospitalisation, the insured may submit the necessary documents to TPA (if claim 
is processed by TPA)/Company (if claim is processed by the Company) within the prescribed time limit. 
 
5.5.4 Documents 
The claim is to be supported by the following documents in original and submitted within the prescribed time limit. 
i. 
Completed claim form 
ii. Bills, payment receipts, medical history of the patient recorded, discharge certificate/ summary from the hospital etc. 
iii. Cash-memo from the hospital (s)/chemist (s) supported by proper prescription 
iv. Payment  receipt, investigation test reports etc. supported by the prescription from the attending medical practitioner  
v. Attending medical practitioner’s certificate regarding diagnosis along with date of diagnosis and bill receipts etc. 
vi. Certificate from the surgeon stating diagnosis and nature of operation and bills/receipts etc. 
vii. For claim under Domiciliary Hospitalisation in addition to documents listed above (as applicable), medical certificate stating 
the circumstances requiring for Domiciliary hospitalisation and fitness certificate from treating medical practitioner. 
viii. For claim under Maternity for surrogacy under Infertility in addition to documents listed above (as applicable), legal affidavit 
regarding intimation of surrogacy. 
ix. For claim under Medical Emergency Reunion in addition to documents listed above (as applicable), confirmation of the need 
of family member from attending medical practitioner 
x. For claim under Reinstatement of Sum Insured due to Road Traffic Accident in addition to documents listed above (as 
applicable),  police investigation report, confirming the road traffic accident. 
xi. Any  other document  required by Company/TPA 
 
Note 
In the event of a claim lodged as per condition 5.8 and the original documents having been submitted to the other insurer, the 
Company may accept the documents listed under condition 5.5.4 and claim settlement advice duly certified by the other insurer 
subject to satisfaction of the Company. 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 14 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
Type of claim 
Time limit for submission of documents to Company/TPA  
Reimbursement of   hospitalization, pre hospitalisation  
expenses and ambulance charges, air ambulance charges and 
medical emergency reunion charges 
Within fifteen days from date of discharge from hospital 
Reimbursement of   post  hospitalisation  expenses and 
doctor’s home visit and nursing care during post 
hospitalization 
Within fifteen days from completion of post hospitalisation  
treatment 
Reimbursement of domiciliary hospitalisation expenses 
 
Within fifteen days from issuance of fitness certificate 
Reimbursement of anti rabies vaccination, new born baby 
vaccination and vaccination of children 
Within fifteen days from date of vaccination 
Reimbursement of expenses for infertility treatment 
Within fifteen days of completion of treatment or fifteen days 
of expiry of Policy period, whichever is earlier, once during the 
policy year 
Reimbursement of  health check up expenses (to be 
submitted to the office only) 
At least forty five (45) days before the expiry of the third Policy 
Year. 
 
5.5.5 Claim Settlement 
i. 
The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 15 days from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document. 
ii. In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the policyholder from the date of 
receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate. 
iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the Company, it shall initiate and 
complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. 
In such cases, the Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. 
iv. In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the policyholder at a rate 2% above 
the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim. 
(Explanation: “Bank rate” shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the beginning of the financial year in 
which claim has fallen due) 
 
5.5.6 Services Offered by TPA 
The TPA shall render health care services covered by the Policy including issuance of ID cards & guide book, hospitalization & 
pre-authorization services, call centre, acceptance of claim related documents, claim processing and other related services  
The services offered by a TPA shall not include 
i. 
Claim settlement and claim rejection; however, TPA may handle claims admission and recommend to the Company for 
settlement of the claim 
ii. Any services directly to any insured person or to any other person unless such service is in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the Agreement entered into with the Company. 
 
Waiver 
Time limit for notification of claim and submission of documents may be waived in cases where it is proved to the satisfaction of 
the Company, that the physical circumstances under which insured person was placed, it was not possible to intimate the 
claim/submit the documents within the prescribed time limit. 
 
5.5.7 Classification of * Zone and Co-payment 
The amount of claim admissible will depend upon the zone for which premium has been paid and the zone where treatment has 
been taken. 
* The country has been divided into four zones. 
Zone I - Greater Mumbai Metropolitan area, entire state of Gujarat 
Zone II – National Capital Territory (NCT) Delhi and National Capital Region (# NCR), Chandigarh, Pune 
Zone III - Chennai, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Kolkata 
Zone IV - Rest of India 
# NCR includes Gurgaon-Manesar, Alwar-Bhiwadi, Faridabad-Ballabgarh, Ghaziabad-Loni, Noida, Greater Noida, Bahadurgarh, Sonepat-
Kundli, Charkhi Dadri, Bhiwani, Narnaul 
 
 
Where treatment has been taken in a zone, other than the one for which ** premium has been paid, the claim shall be subject to co-
payment. 
a. 
Insured paying premium as per Zone I can avail treatment in Zone I, Zone II, Zone III and Zone IV without co-payment 
b. Insured paying premium as per Zone II 
a. 
Can avail treatment in Zone II, Zone III and Zone IV without any co-payment 
b. Availing treatment in Zone I will be subject to a co-payment of 5%  
c. 
Insured paying premium as per Zone III 
a. 
Can avail treatment in Zone III and Zone IV without any co-payment 
b. Availing treatment in Zone I will be subject to a co-payment of 12.5%  
c. 
Availing treatment in Zone II will be subject to a co-payment of 7.5%  
d. Insured paying premium as per Zone IV 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 15 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
a. 
Can avail treatment in Zone IV without any co-payment 
b. Availing treatment in Zone I will be subject to a co-payment of 22.5%  
c. 
Availing treatment in Zone II will be subject to a co-payment of 17.5%  
d. Availing treatment in Zone III will be subject to a co-payment of 10%  
** For premium rates please refer to the Prospectus/ Brochure 
 
5.5.8 Optional Co-payment 
The Insured may opt for Optional Co-payment, with discount in premium. In such cases, each admissible claim under the Policy 
shall be subject to the same Co-payment percentage. Any change in Optional Co-payment may be done only during Renewal. 
Insured may choose either of the two Co-payment options: 
• 
20% Co-payment on each admissible claim under the Policy, with a 25% discount in total premium. 
• 
10% Co-payment on each admissible claim under the Policy, with a 12.5% discount in total premium. 
 
Above co-payments shall not be applicable on Critical illness & Outpatient treatment optional covers, but shall apply on Pre-existing 
diabetes and/ or hypertension optional cover. 
 
5.6 Moratorium Period 
After completion of sixty continuous months of coverage (including Portability and Migration), no claim shall be contestable by the 
Company on grounds of non-disclosure, misrepresentation, except on grounds of established fraud. This period of sixty continuous 
months is called as Moratorium Period. The moratorium would be applicable for the Basic Sums Insured of the first policy. 
Wherever, the Basic Sum Insured is enhanced, completion of sixty continuous months would be applicable from the date of 
enhancement of Basic Sums Insured only on the enhanced limits. 
 
5.7 Payment of Claim 
All claims by the Policy shall be payable in Indian currency and through NEFT/ RTGS only. 
 
 
5.8 Territorial Limit 
All medical treatment for the purpose of this insurance will have to be taken in India only. 
 
5.9 Multiple Policies 
i. 
In case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one or more insurers to indemnify treatment costs, 
the insured person shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such 
cases the insurer chosen by the insured person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and 
according to the terms of the chosen policy. 
ii. Insured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this policy for the amounts disallowed 
under any other policy / policies. Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of 
this policy. 
iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the insured person shall have the right to choose 
insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount. 
iv. Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity basis, the insured person 
shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy. 
v. On occurrence of an insured event under specified critical illnesses, the policyholders can claim from all Insurers under all 
policies. 
 
5.10 Fraud 
If any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is made or used in 
support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the insured person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain 
any benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited. 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later shall be repaid by all 
recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the 
insurer. 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed by the insured person or by his 
agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the insured person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the 
insurer to issue an insurance policy: 
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured  person does not believe to be true; 
b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge or belief of the fact; 
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and 
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if the insured person / 
beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress 
the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer. 
 
5.11 Cancellation 
i. The Company may cancel the policy at any time, on grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material facts or 
established fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days’ written notice. There would be no refund of premium on 
cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material facts or fraud. 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 16 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
ii. The policyholder may cancel his/her policy at any time during the term, by giving 7 days’ notice in writing. The Insurer shall: 
a) refund proportionate premium for unexpired policy period, if the term of policy upto one year and there is no claim (s) 
made during the policy period.  
b) refund premium for the unexpired policy period, in respect of policies with term more than 1 year and risk coverage for 
such policy years has not commenced and refund proportionate premium for unexpired policy period for the current 
policy year. 
There shall be no refund for the completed policy year elapsed. 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in respect of Cancellation where, 
any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has been availed under the Policy. 
 
5.12 Territorial Jurisdiction 
All disputes or differences under or in relation to the Policy shall be determined by an Indian court in accordance to Indian law. 
 
5.13 Arbitration 
i. 
If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid by the Policy, (liability being otherwise admitted) such 
difference shall independently of all other questions, be referred for arbitration as per Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, 
as amended from time to time. 
ii. It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be referable to arbitration as herein before provided, if the 
Company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of the Policy. 
iii. It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or suit upon the Policy 
that award by such arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of expenses shall be first obtained. 
 
5.14 Disclaimer  
If the Company shall disclaim liability for a claim hereunder and if the insured person shall not within twelve calendar months from 
the date of receipt of the notice of such disclaimer notify the Company in writing that he/ she does not accept such disclaimer and 
intends to recover his/ her claim from the Company, then the claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been abandoned and 
shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder. 
 
5.15 Renewal of Policy 
i. 
The policy shall be renewable provided the product is not withdrawn, except in case of established fraud or non-disclosure or 
misrepresentation by the Insured. If the product is withdrawn, the policyholder shall be provided with suitable options to migrate 
to other similar health insurance products/plans offered by the Company. 
ii. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under obligation to give any notice for 
renewal. 
iii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims in the preceding policy years. 
iv. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before the end of the policy period. 
v. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace Period of 30 days to maintain 
continuity of benefits without break in policy. Coverage is not available during the grace period. 
vi. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. 
vii. In case of non-continuance of the Policy by the insured (due to death or any other valid and acceptable reason) 
a. 
The Policy may be renewed by any insured person above eighteen years of age, as the insured 
b. If only children (less than eighteen years of age) are covered, the Policy shall be allowed till the expiry of the policy 
period. The grandparents may be allowed to renew the Policy as Proposer, covering the grandchildren. 
viii. In case of death of the eldest insured person: 
• 
The base premium may be calculated based on the age of the next eldest insured person. 
 
5.16 Enhancement of Sum Insured 
Sum insured can be enhanced only at the time of renewal. Sum insured may be enhanced subject to the availability of the higher 
slabs in the Policy and at the discretion of the Company. For the incremental portion of the sum insured, the waiting periods and 
conditions as mentioned in exclusion 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 shall apply. Coverage on enhanced sum insured shall be available after the 
completion of waiting periods.  
 
5.17 Adjustment of Premium for Overseas Travel Insurance Policy 
If during the policy period any of the insured person is also covered by an Overseas Travel Insurance Policy of any non life insurance 
company, the Policy shall be inoperative in respect of the insured persons for the number of days the Overseas Travel Insurance 
Policy is in force and proportionate premium for such number of days shall be adjusted against the renewal premium. The insured 
person must inform the Company in writing before leaving India and may submit an application, stating the details of visit(s) abroad, 
along with copies of the Overseas Travel Insurance Policy, within seven days of return or expiry of the Policy, whichever is earlier. 
 
5.18  Migration 
The Insured Person will have the option to migrate the Policy to an alternative health insurance product offered by the Company by 
applying for Migration of the policy at least 30 days before the policy renewal date as per extant Guidelines related to Migration. If 
such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under this Policy offered by the Company, 
i. The Insured Person will get all the accrued continuity benefits for credits gained to the extent of the specific waiting periods, 
waiting period for pre-existing diseases and Moratorium period of the Insured Person. 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 17 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
ii. Migration benefit will be offered to the extent of Sum Insured of the previous policy. Migration benefit shall not apply to 
any other additional increased Sum Insured. 
The Proposal may be subject to fresh Underwriting as per terms of conditions of the migrated product, if the insured is not 
continuously covered for at least 36 months under the previous product. 
 
5.19 Portability 
The Insured Person will have the option to port the Policy to other insurers by applying to such Insurer to port the entire policy along 
with all the members of the family, if any, at least 15 days before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date, as per 
IRDAI guidelines related to Portability. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses 
under this Policy offered by the Company, 
i. The proposed Insured Person will get all the accrued continuity benefits for specific waiting periods, waiting period for pre-
existing diseases and Moratorium period of the Insured Person under the previous health insurance Policy. 
ii. Portability benefit will be offered to the extent of Sum Insured of the previous policy. Portability benefit shall not apply to 
any other additional increased Sum Insured. 
 
5.20 Withdrawal of Product 
i. 
In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the insured person about the same 90 
days prior to expiry of the policy. 
ii. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with the Company at the time of 
renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI guidelines, 
provided the policy has been maintained without a break. 
 
5.21 Revision of Terms of the Policy Including the Premium Rates  
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the premium rates. The insured 
person shall be notified before the changes are effected. 
 
5.22 Free Look Period 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on renewals or at the time of 
porting/migrating the policy. 
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of thirty days from date of receipt of the policy document to review the terms 
and conditions of the policy. If he/she is not satisfied with any of the terms and conditions, he/she has the option to cancel his/her 
policy. This option is available in case of policies with a term of one year or more. 
If the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to: 
i. 
a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the insured person and 
the stamp duty charges or 
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by the insured person, a deduction 
towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or 
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium commensurate with the insurance 
coverage during such period. 
 
5.23 Nomination  
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment of claims under the 
policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the company in writing and 
such change shall be effective only when an endorsement on the policy is made. In the event of death of the policyholder, the 
Company will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no 
subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final 
discharge of its liability under the policy. 
 
6. REDRESSAL OF GRIEVANCE 
In case of any grievance related to the Policy, the insured person may submit in writing to the Policy Issuing Office or Grievance 
cell at Regional Office of the Company for redressal. If the grievance remains unaddressed, the insured person may contact: 
Customer Relationship Management Dept., National Insurance Company Limited, Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81, New 
Town, Kolkata - 700156, email: customer.relations@nic.co.in, griho@nic.co.in 
For 
more 
information 
on 
grievance 
mechanism, 
and 
to 
download 
grievance 
form, 
visit 
our 
website https://nationalinsurance.nic.co.in 
Bima Bharosa (an Integrated Grievance Management System earlier known as IGMS) - https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/ 
Insurance Ombudsman – The Insured person can also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region 
for redressal of grievance as listed in Annexure -III.  The updated list of Office of Insurance Ombudsman are available on IRDAI 
website: https://irdai.gov.in/ and on the website of Council for Insurance Ombudsman: https://www.cioins.co.in/ 
Helpline Number: 1800 345 0330 
Dedicated Email ID for Senior Citizens: health.srcitizens@nic.co.in 
 
 
 
 
 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 18 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
7. OPTIONAL COVERS 
7.1 Pre-existing Diabetes / Hypertension 
Subject otherwise to the terms, definitions, exclusions, and conditions of the Policy and on payment of additional premium, the 
Company shall pay expenses for treatment of diabetes and/ or hypertension, if pre-existing, from the inception of the Policy. On 
completion of continuous thirty six months of insurance, the additional premium and sub limits shall not apply. 
 
Eligibility 
As per the Policy. 
 
Limit of Cover 
Sum Insured opted under the policy shall apply. 
 
Policy period 
The policy period for the Policy, and the cover should be identical, as mentioned in the schedule. 
 
Tax rebate  
The insured can avail tax benefits for the premium paid, under Section 80D of Income Tax Act 1961. 
 
Renewal  
The cover can be renewed annually till Exclusion 4.1 applies on diabetes and/or hypertension, with respect to the insured persons. 
 
7.1.1 Condition 
Claim Amount 
Any amount payable shall be subject to  
i. 
The sum insured applicable to Section 3.1,  
ii. 
Co-payment mentioned under Classification of Zone and Co-payment, Optional Copayment, and  
iii. 
Sub limits mentioned below. 
First year 
Up to a maximum of 25% of SI 
Second year 
Up to a maximum of 50% of SI 
Third year 
Up to a maximum of 75% of SI 
 
7.2 Out-patient Treatment  
Subject otherwise to the terms, definitions, conditions and Exclusions 4.7, 4.8, 4.17, 4.16, 4.23, 4.12, 4.9, 4.10, 4.34 and 4.35, the 
Company shall pay up to the limit, as stated in the schedule with respect of  
i. 
Out-patient consultations by a medical practitioner 
ii. Diagnostic tests prescribed by a medical practitioner 
iii. Medicines/drugs prescribed by a medical practitioner  
iv. Out patient dental treatment 
 
Eligibility 
The cover can be availed by all insured persons as a floater. 
 
Limit of Cover 
Limit of cover, available under Out-patient Treatment are INR 2,000/ 3,000/ 4,000/ 5,000/ 10,000/ 15,000/ 20,000/ 25,000, in 
addition to the sum insured opted. 
Policy Period 
The policy period for the Policy, and the cover should be identical, as mentioned in the schedule. 
 
Tax Rebate  
The insured person can avail tax benefits for the premium paid, under Section 80D of Income Tax Act 1961. 
 
Renewal  
The Outpatient Treatment cover can be renewed annually throughout the lifetime of the insured person. 
 
7.2.1 Exclusions 
The Company shall not make any payment under the cover in respect of  
i. 
Treatment other than Allopathy/ Modern medicine, AYUSH 
ii. * Cosmetic dental treatment to straighten lightens, reshape and repair teeth.  
* Cosmetic treatments include veneers, crowns, bridges, tooth-coloured fillings, implants and tooth whitening). 
 
7.2.2 Condition 
Claim Amount 
i. 
Any amount payable shall not affect the sum insured applicable to Section 3.1 and entitlement to No Claim Discount. 
ii. 
Any amount payable shall not be subject to co-payment. 
 
 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 19 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
Claims Procedure  
Documents supporting all out-patient treatments shall be submitted to the TPA/ Company twice during the policy period, within 
thirty days of completion of six month period. 
 
Documents  
The claim has to be supported by the following original documents 
i. 
All bills, prescriptions from medical practitioner 
ii. Diagnostic test bills, copy of reports 
iii. Any other documents required by the Company 
 
Enhancement of Limit of Cover 
Limit of cover can be enhanced only at the time of renewal. 
 
7.3 Critical Illness 
Subject otherwise to the terms, definitions, exclusions, and conditions of the Policy the Company shall pay the benefit amount, as 
stated in the schedule,  provided that 
i. 
the insured person is first diagnosed as suffering from a critical illness during the policy period as a first incidence, and 
ii. the insured person survives at least thirty days following such diagnosis 
iii. diagnosis of critical illness is supported by clinical, radiological, histological and laboratory evidence acceptable to the 
Company. 
 
Eligibility (entry age) 
The cover can be availed by persons between the age of eighteen years and sixty five years. 
 
Benefit Amount 
Benefit amount available under Critical Illness cover shall be limited to the 50% of the sum insured by the Policy. 
Benefit amount available per individual are INR 2,00,000/ 3,00,000/ 5,00,000/ 10,00,000/ 15,00,000/ 20,00,000/ 25,00,000, in 
addition to the sum insured opted.  
 
Policy Period 
The policy period for the Policy, and the cover should be identical, as mentioned in the schedule. 
 
Pre Policy checkup 
Pre Policy checkup reports (as per Section 2.8.iii) are required for individual opting for Critical illness cover between the age of 
eighteen years and sixty five years. 
 
Tax Rebate  
No tax benefit is allowed on the premium paid under Critical Illness cover (if opted) 
 
Renewal  
The Critical Illness cover can be renewed annually throughout the lifetime of the insured person. 
 
7.3.1 Definition 
Critical illness means stroke resulting in permanent symptoms, cancer of specified severity, kidney failure requiring regular 
dialysis, major organ/ bone marrow transplant, multiple sclerosis with persisting symptoms an open chest CABG (Coronary Artery 
Bypass Graft), permanent paralysis of limbs and blindness. 
 
I. Stroke Resulting in Permanent Symptoms 
Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. This includes infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an 
intracranial vessel, haemorrhage and embolisation from an extracranial source. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist medical 
practitioner and evidenced by typical clinical symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the brain. Evidence of 
permanent neurological deficit lasting for at least three months has to be produced. 
 
The following are not covered: 
i. 
transient ischemic attacks (TIA) 
ii. traumatic injury of the brain 
iii. vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions. 
 
II. Cancer of Specified Severity 
A malignant tumor characterised by the uncontrolled growth & spread of malignant cells with invasion & destruction of normal 
tissues. This Diagnosis must be supported by histological evidence of malignancy. The term cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma 
and sarcoma. 
The following are excluded: 
i. 
All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ, benign, pre-malignant, borderline malignant, low 
malignant potential, neoplasm of unknown behavior, or non- invasive, including but not limited to: 
Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN -2 & CIN-3. 
ii. Any non- melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of metastases to lymph nodes or beyond; 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 20 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
iii. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the epidermis; 
iv. All tumors of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score greater than 6 or having progressed to at 
least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0; 
v. All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM classification) or below; 
vi. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3 
vii. Non- invasive Papillary cancer of bladder histologically described as TaN0M0 (TNM Classification)or of a lesser 
classification; 
viii. All Gastro-intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below and with mitotic 
count of less than or equal to 5/50 HPFs; 
 
III Kidney Failure Requiring Regular Dialysis 
End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys to function, as a result of which either regular renal 
dialysis (hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation is carried out. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a 
specialist medical practitioner. 
 
IV Major Organ/ Bone Marrow Transplant 
The actual undergoing of a transplant of: 
i. 
one of the following human organs: heart, lung, liver, kidney, pancreas, that resulted from irreversible end-stage failure of the 
relevant organ, or 
ii. human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of a transplant has to be confirmed by a specialist medical 
practitioner. 
 
The following are not covered 
i. 
other stem-cell transplants 
ii. where only islets of langerhans are transplanted 
 
V Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms  
The unequivocal Diagnosis of Definite Multiple Sclerosis confirmed and evidenced by all of the following 
i. 
Investigations including typical MRI findings, which unequivocally confirm the Diagnosis to be multiple sclerosis and 
ii. There must be current clinical impairment of motor or sensory function, which must have persisted for a continuous period of 
at least 6 months 
iii. Neurological damage due to SLE is excluded. 
 
VI Open Chest CABG 
The actual undergoing of open chest surgery for the correction of one or more coronary arteries, which is/are narrowed or blocked, 
by coronary artery bypass graft (CABG). The diagnosis must be supported by a coronary angiography and the realization of surgery 
has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. 
 
The following are not covered 
i. 
angioplasty and/or any other intra-arterial procedures 
ii. any key-hole or laser surgery. 
 
VII Permanent Paralysis of Limbs 
Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or disease of the brain or spinal cord. A specialist medical 
practitioner must be of the opinion that the paralysis will be permanent with no hope of recovery and must be present for more than 
three months. 
 
VIII Blindness  
The total and permanent loss of all sight in both eyes. 
 
7.3.2 Exclusions 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment by the Policy if: any critical illness and/or its symptoms (and/or the treatment) 
which were present at any time before inception of the first Policy, or which manifest within a period of ninety days from inception 
of the first Policy, whether or not the insured person had knowledge that the symptoms or treatment were related to such critical 
illness. In the event of break in the Policy, the terms of this exclusion shall apply as new from recommencement of cover 
 
7.3.3 Condition 
Claim Amount 
i. 
Any amount payable under the optional covers will not affect the sum insured applicable to Section 3.1 and entitlement to 
No Claim Discount (Section 3.1). 
ii. 
Any amount payable shall not be subject to co-payment. 
Notification of Claim  
In the event of a claim, the insured person/insured person’s representative shall intimate the Company in writing, providing all 
relevant information within fifteen days of diagnosis of the illness. 
 
 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 21 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
Claims Procedure  
Documents as mentioned above, supporting the diagnosis shall be submitted to the Company within sixty days from the date of 
diagnosis of the critical illness. 
 
Documents  
The claim has to be supported by the following original documents 
i. 
Doctor’s certificate confirming diagnosis of the critical illness along with date of diagnosis. 
ii. Pathological/other diagnostic test reports confirming the diagnosis of the critical illness. 
iii. Any other documents required by the Company 
 
Cessation of Cover 
1 upon payment of the benefit amount on the occurrence of a critical illness the cover shall cease and no further claim shall be paid 
for any other critical illness during the policy year. 
2 On renewal, no claim shall be paid for a critical illness for which a claim has already been made 
 
Enhancement of Benefit Amount 
i. 
Benefit amount can be enhanced only at the time of renewal. 
ii. Benefit amount can be enhanced to the next slab subject to discretion of the Company. 
 
 
Insurance is the subject matter of solicitation 
Please preserve the Policy for all future reference. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 22 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
Table of Benefits: 
Features 
Plans 
  
PLAN  A 
PLAN  B 
PLAN  C 
Sum insured (SI) (as Floater) 
INR 6/ 7/ 8/ 9 /10 Lac 
INR 15/ 20 /25 Lac 
INR 30/ 40/ 50 Lac 
Treatment 
Allopathy, AYUSH 
In built Covers (subject to the SI) 
 
 
 
In patient Treatment (as Floater) 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
Pre Hospitalisation 
30 days 
30 days 
30 days 
Post Hospitalisation 
60 days 
60 days 
60 days 
Pre-existing Disease (Only PEDs declared in the Proposal 
Form and accepted for coverage by the Company shall be 
covered) 
Covered after 36 months of 
continuous coverage 
Covered after 36 months 
of continuous coverage 
Covered after 36 months 
of continuous coverage 
* Room/ ICU Charges (per day per insured person) 
Room - Up to 1% of SI or actual, 
whichever is lower 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
ICU – Up to 2% of SI or actual, 
whichever is lower 
** Limit for Cataract Surgery (For each eye per insured 
person) 
Up to  15% of SI or INR 60,000 
whichever is lower 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
Domiciliary Hospitalisation (as Floater) 
Up to INR 1,00,000 
Up to INR 2,00,000 
Up to INR 2,00,000 
Day Care Procedures (as Floater) 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
AYUSH Treatment (as Floater) 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
Organ Donor’s Medical Expenses (as Floater) 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
Hospital Cash (per insured person, per day) 
INR 500, max. of 5 days 
INR 1,000, max. of 5 
days 
INR 2,000, max. of 5 
days 
Ambulance (per insured person, in a policy year) 
Up to INR 2,500  
Up to INR 4,000  
Up to INR 5,000  
Air Ambulance (per insured person, in a policy year) 
Not covered 
Up to  5% of SI  
Up to  5% of SI  
Medical Emergency Reunion (per insured person, in a policy 
year) 
Not covered 
No sublimit 
No sublimit 
Doctor’s Home Visit and Nursing Care during Post 
Hospitalisation (per insured person, in a policy year) 
Not covered 
INR 1,000 per day, max. 
of 10 days 
INR 2,000 per day, max. 
of 10 days 
Anti Rabies Vaccination (per insured person, in a policy year) 
Up to INR 5,000  
Up to INR 5,000 
Up to INR 5,000 
Maternity (including Baby from Birth Cover) (per insured 
person, in a policy year, waiting period of 2 years applies) 
Up to INR 30,000 for normal 
delivery and INR 50,000 for 
caesarean section 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
Vaccination for New Born Baby 
As part of Maternity 
As part of Maternity 
As part of Maternity 
Infertility (per insured person,  in a policy year, waiting 
period of 2 years applies) 
Up to INR 50,000 
Up to INR 1,00,000 
Up to INR 1,00,000 
Vaccination for Children, for male child up to 12 years and 
female child up to 14 years (per insured person, in a policy 
year) 
Up to INR 1,000 
Up to SI 
Up to SI 
Modern Treatment (12 nos) 
Up to 25% of SI for each treatment 
Up to 25% of SI for each 
treatment 
Up to 25% of SI for each 
treatment 
Treatment due to participation in hazardous or adventure 
sports (non-professionals) 
Up to 25% of SI 
Up to 25% of SI 
Up to 25% of SI 
Morbid Obesity 
Covered after waiting period of 3 
years 
Covered after waiting 
period of 3 years 
Covered after waiting 
period of 3 years 
Refractive Error (min 7.5D) 
Covered after waiting period of 2 
years 
Covered after waiting 
period of 2 years 
Covered after waiting 
period of 2 years 
Other benefits 
 
 
 
Reinstatement of sum insured due to road traffic accident 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Good Health Incentives 
 
 
 
No Claim Discount 
5% discount on base premium, 
Health Check Up (as Floater) 
Every 2 yrs., up to INR 5,000 
Every 2 yrs., up to INR 
7,500 
Every 2 yrs., up to INR 
10,000 
Optional covers 
 
 
 
Pre-existing Diabetes/Hypertension (as Floater) 
First year 
Up to a maximum of 25% of SI 
Second year 
Up to a maximum of 50% of SI 
Third year 
Up to a maximum of 75% of SI 
Out-patient Treatment (as Floater in a policy year) 
Limit of cover per family - INR 2,000/ 3,000/ 4,000/ 5,000/ 10,000/ 15,000/ 20,000/ 25,000 
in addition to the SI 
***Critical Illness (per insured person in a policy year) 
Benefit amount - INR 2,00,000/ 3,00,000/ 5,00,000/ 10,00,000/ 15,00,000/ 20,00,000/ 
25,00,000 in addition to the SI 
Discounts 
Online Discount 
10% discount in premium (for new and Renewal, ONLY where no intermediary is involved) 
Co-payment discount (optional) 
•20% Co-payment, with a 25% discount in total premium. 
•10% Co-payment, with a 12.5% discount in total premium. 
Long Term Discount 
Discount of 4% for 2 year policy and Discount of 7.5% for 3 year policy 
No Maternity/ Infertility Discount 
Discount of 3%, above 45 years of age 
Add-ons (cover available on payment of additional premium) 
National Home Care Treatment Add-On 
INR 10,000/ 15,000/ 20,000/ 25,000/ 30,000/ 35,000/ 40,000/ 45,000/ 50,000, subject to 10% 
of Basic SI under base Policy. 
National Non-Medical Expenses Add-on (available to SI 5 
lacs & above) 
Up to 10% of Basic Sum Insured (excluding Cumulative Bonus, if any) of base Policy and 
shall be part of the base Policy Basic Sum Insured (excluding Cumulative Bonus, if any). 
* The limit shall not apply if the treatment is undergone for a listed procedure in a Preferred Provider Network (PPN) as a package. 
** The limit shall not apply if the treatment is undergone for a listed procedure in a Preferred Provider Network (PPN) as a package 
*** Critical Illness benefit amount should not be more than the sum insured opted under the Policy 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 23 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
Annexure I 
Vaccinations for Children 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time interval  
Type of vaccination  
Frequency 
 
Vaccination for new born 
0-3 months  
BCG (From birth to 2 weeks)  
1  
OPV (0‚6‚10 weeks) OR OPV + IPV1 (6,10 
weeks) 
3 OR 4  
DPT (6 & 10 week) 
2  
Hepatitis-B (0 & 6 week) 
2  
Hib (6 & 10 week) 
2  
Vaccination for first year 
3-6 months  
OPV (14 week) OR OPV + IPV2  
1 OR 2  
DPT (14 week) 
1  
Hepatitis-B (14 week) 
1  
Hib (14 week)  
1  
9 months  
Measles (+9 months)  
1  
12 months  
Chicken Pox (12 months)  
1  
Vaccinations for age 1 to 12 years 
1-2 years  
OPV (15 &18 months) OR OPV + IPV3  
1 OR 2  
DPT (15-18 months) 
1  
Hib (15-18 months) 
1  
MMR (15- 18 months) 
1  
Meningococcal vaccine (24 months) 
1  
2-3 years  
Typhoid (+2 years)  
1  
10-12 years  
TT  
1 
14 years (girl child only) 
HPV 
1 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page 24 of 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
Annexure II 
List I – List of which coverage is not available in the policy 
Sl 
Item 
1 
BABY FOOD 
2 
BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 
3 
BEAUTY SERVICES 
4 
BELTS/ BRACES 
5 
BUDS 
6 
COLD PACK/HOT PACK 
7 
CARRY BAGS 
8 
EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 
9 
FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY 
HOSPITAL) 
10 
LEGGINGS 
11 
LAUNDRY CHARGES 
12 
MINERAL WATER 
13 
SANITARY PAD  
14 
TELEPHONE CHARGES 
15 
GUEST SERVICES 
16 
CREPE BANDAGE 
17 
DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 
18 
EYELET COLLAR 
19 
SLINGS 
20 
BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 
21 
SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED 
22 
Television Charges 
23 
SURCHARGES 
24 
ATTENDANT CHARGES 
25 
EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS 
PART OF BED CHARGE) 
26 
BIRTH CERTIFICATE 
27 
CERTIFICATE CHARGES 
28 
COURIER CHARGES 
29 
CONVEYANCE CHARGES 
30 
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 
31 
MEDICAL RECORDS 
32 
PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 
33 
MORTUARY CHARGES  
34 
WALKING AIDS CHARGES 
35 
OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)  
36 
SPACER  
37 
SPIROMETRE  
38 
NEBULIZER KIT 
39 
STEAM INHALER 
40 
ARMSLING 
41 
THERMOMETER 
42 
CERVICAL COLLAR 
43 
SPLINT 
44 
DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
45 
KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)  
46 
KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER 
47 
LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
48 
NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES 
49 
AMBULANCE COLLAR 
50 
AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
51 
ABDOMINAL BINDER 
52 
PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES  
53 
 SUGAR FREE Tablets 
54 
CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed 
medical pharmaceuticals payable) 
55 
ECG ELECTRODES 
56 
GLOVES 
57 
NEBULISATION KIT 
58 
ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, 
ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC] 
59 
KIDNEY TRAY 
60 
MASK  
61 
OUNCE GLASS 
62 
OXYGEN MASK 
63 
PELVIC TRACTION BELT  
64 
PAN CAN 
65 
TROLLY COVER 
66 
UROMETER, URINE JUG 
67 
VASOFIX SAFETY 
List II – Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
Sl 
Item 
1 
BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 
2 
HAND WASH 
3 
SHOE COVER 
4 
CAPS 
5 
CRADLE CHARGES 
6 
COMB 
7 
EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 
8 
FOOT COVER 
9 
GOWN 
10 
SLIPPERS  
11 
TISSUE PAPER 
12 
TOOTH PASTE 
13 
TOOTH BRUSH 
14 
BED PAN 
15 
FACE MASK 
16 
FLEXI MASK 
17 
HAND HOLDER 
18 
SPUTUM CUP  
19 
DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 
20 
LUXURY TAX 
21 
HVAC 
22 
HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
23 
AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
24 
IM IV INJECTION CHARGES  
25 
CLEAN SHEET 
26 
BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET 
27 
ADMISSION KIT 
28 
DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
29 
DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
30 
DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
31 
DAILY CHART CHARGES 
32 
ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES 
33 
EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
34 
FILE OPENING CHARGES 
35 
INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) 
36 
PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 
37 
PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 
List III – Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
Sl 
Item 
1 
HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 
DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations) 
3 
EYE PAD 
4 
EYE SHEILD 
5 
CAMERA COVER 
6 
DVD, CD CHARGES 
7 
GAUSE SOFT 
8 
GAUZE 
9 
WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 
ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 
MICROSCOPE COVER  
12 
SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER 
13 
SURGICAL DRILL 
14 
EYE KIT  
15 
EYE DRAPE 
16 
X-RAY FILM 
17 
BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 
COTTON 
19 
COTTON BANDAGE 
20 
SURGICAL TAPE 
21 
APRON 
22 
TORNIQUET  
23 
ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
List IV – Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
Sl 
Item 
1 
ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES 
2 
HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 
URINE CONTAINER 
4 
BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING 
CHARGES 
5 
BIPAP MACHINE 
6 
CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS 
7 
INFUSION PUMP– COST 
8 
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC 
9 
NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET 
CHARGES  
10 
HIV KIT 
11 
ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
12 
LOZENGES 
13 
MOUTH PAINT 
14 
VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 
ALCOHOL SWABES 
16 
SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM 
17 
Glucometer & Strips 
18 
URINE BAG 
National Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Premises No. 18-0374, Plot no. CBD-81,  
New Town, Kolkata - 700156 
Page | 25 
National Parivar Mediclaim Plus Policy 
UIN: NICHLIP25039V032425 
 
Annexure III 
The contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman offices are as below: 
Areas of Jurisdiction 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman 
Gujarat , UT of Dadra and 
Nagar Haveli, Daman and 
Diu  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Ahmedabad 
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, 
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, 
Ahmedabad – 380 001. 
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02 
Email: 
bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in 
Karnataka 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Bengaluru 
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-
N-19 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in 
Madhya Pradesh and 
Chhattisgarh  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Bhopal 
1st floor,"Jeevan Shikha", 60-B, 
Hoshangabad Road, Opp. Gayatri 
Mandir,Arera Hills 
Bhopal – 462 011.  
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202/ 2769203 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in 
Orissa  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Bhubaneswar 
62, Forest park, 
Bhubneshwar – 751 009. 
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 
Email: 
bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in 
Punjab, Haryana (excluding 
Gurugram, Faridabad, 
Sonepat and Bahadurgarh), 
Himachal Pradesh, Union 
Territories of Jammu & 
Kashmir,Ladakh & 
Chandigarh. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Chandigarh 
Jeevan Deep Building SCO 20-27, 
Ground Floor Sector- 17 A, 
Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Tel.: 0172-2706468 
Email: 
bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in 
Tamil Nadu,   UT–
Pondicherry Town and 
Karaikal (which are part of 
UT of Pondicherry)  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Chennai 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, 
Anna Salai, Teynampet, 
CHENNAI – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24333678 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in 
Delhi & following Districts 
of Haryana - Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat & 
Bahadurgarh. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Delhi 
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, 
Asaf Ali Road, 
New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 46013992/23213504/23232481 
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in 
Assam , Meghalaya, 
Manipur, Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland 
and Tripura  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Guwahati 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, 
Near Pan Bazar , S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 / 2631307 
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in 
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana 
and UT of Yanam – a part of 
the UT of Pondicherry  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hyderabad 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", Lane 
Opp.Hyundai Showroom , A. C. Guards, 
Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004. 
Tel.: 040 - 23312122 / 23376991 / 
23376599 / 23328709 / 23325325 
Email: 
bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in 
Rajasthan 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jaipur 
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, 
Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141- 2740363 
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in 
Kerala , UT of  (a) 
Lakshadweep, (b) Mahe – a 
part of UT of Pondicherry  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Kochi 
10th Floor, Jeevan Prakash,LIC Building, 
Opp to Maharaja's College 
Ground,M.G.Road, 
Kochi - 682 011. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 
Email: 
bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in 
West Bengal, UT of 
Andaman and Nicobar 
Islands, Sikkim  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Kolkata 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 7th Floor, 
4, C.R. Avenue, 
KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh : 
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, 
Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, 
Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, 
Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, 
Unnao, Sitapur, Lakhimpur, 
Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, 
Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, 
Basti, Ambedkarnagar, 
Sultanpur, Maharajgang, 
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, 
Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, 
Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, 
Chandauli, Ballia, 
Sidharathnagar. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Lucknow 
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 4002082 / 3500613 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in 
Mumbai Metropolitan 
Region excluding wards in 
Mumbai – i.e M/E, M/W, N , 
S and T covered under Office 
of Insurance Ombudsman 
Thane and areas of Navi 
Mumbai. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Mumbai 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 69038800/27/29/31/32/33 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in 
State of Uttaranchal and the 
following Districts of Uttar 
Pradesh: 
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, 
Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, 
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, 
Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, 
Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, 
Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, 
Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, 
Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Noida 
Bhagwan Sahai Palace 
4th Floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 
15, 
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253 
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in 
Bihar, 
Jharkhand. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Patna 
2nd Floor, Lalit Bhawan, Bailey Road, 
Patna 800 001. 
Tel.: 0612-2547068 
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in 
State of Goa and State of 
Maharashtra excluding areas 
of Navi Mumbai, Thane 
district,Palghar District, 
Raigad district & Mumbai 
Metropolitan Region 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Pune 
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, 
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar 
Road, 
Narayan Peth, Pune – 411 030. 
Tel.: 020-24471175 
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in 
 
 
