United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
 
 
 
FAMILY MEDICARE POLICY 
I. PREAMBLE 
This Policy is a contract of insurance issued by UNITED INDIA INSURANCE COMPANY (hereinafter called 
the COMPANY) to the Proposer mentioned in the Schedule (hereinafter called the ‘Insured’) to cover the 
person(s) named in the schedule (hereinafter called the ‘Insured Persons’). The Policy is based on the 
statements and declaration provided in the Proposal Form by the Proposer and is subject to  
i. 
the receipt of full premium, 
ii. 
disclosure to information norm including the information provided in the Proposal Form by the 
Insured on behalf of him/her-self and all persons to be Insured which is incorporated in the policy 
and is the basis of it; and  
iii. 
the terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy.  
 
II. OPERATIVE CLAUSE 
If during the Policy Period the Insured Person(s) is required to be hospitalized for treatment of an Illness 
or Injury at a Hospital /Day Care Centre, following Medical Advice of a duly qualified Medical Practitioner, 
the Company shall indemnify Medically Necessary, Reasonable and Customary Medical Expenses towards 
the Coverage mentioned hereunder. 
Provided further that, any amount payable under the Policy shall be subject to the terms of coverage 
(including any limits/sub limits), exclusions, conditions and definitions contained herein. Maximum liability 
of the Company under all such Claims during each Policy Year shall be the Sum Insured opted and specified 
in the Schedule. 
III. COVER TYPE 
 
The Policy provides cover on an Individual or Family Floater basis. A separate Sum Insured for each Insured 
Person, as specified in the Policy Schedule, is provided under Individual basis while under Family Floater 
basis, the Sum Insured limit is shared by the whole family of the Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule 
and Our total liability for the family cannot exceed the Sum Insured in a Policy period. The cover type basis 
shall be as specified in the Policy Schedule.  
IV. DEFINITIONS 
A. Standard Definitions 
1. ACCIDENT is a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent 
means. 
2. ANY ONE ILLNESS will be deemed to mean continuous period of illness and it includes relapse within 
45 days    from the date of last consultation with the Hospital / Nursing Home where treatment has 
been taken. 
3. CASHLESS FACILITY means a facility extended by the Insurer or TPA on behalf of the Insurer to the 
Insured, where the payments for the costs of treatment undergone by the Insured in accordance with 
the policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the Insurer to the extent 
pre-authorization is approved. 
4. CONDITION PRECEDENT shall mean a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer’s liability under 
the policy is conditional. 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
2 
 
5. CONGENITAL ANOMALY refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal 
with reference to form, structure or position. 
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly: Which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body. 
b. External Congenital Anomaly: Which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body. 
6. CO-PAYMENT means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that 
the Policyholder/Insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claims amount. A co-
payment does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
7. DAY CARE CENTRE means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and/or injuries 
or a medical set-up within a hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, 
wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified medical practitioner 
AND must comply with all minimum criteria as under: 
i. 
Has qualified nursing staff under its employment 
ii. 
Has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge 
iii. 
Has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out- 
iv. 
Maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance Company’s 
authorized personnel. 
8. DAY CARE TREATMENT means medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is: 
i. 
undertaken under general or local anaesthesia in a hospital/day care centre in less than 
twenty-four hours because of technological advancement, and 
ii. 
which would have otherwise required a hospitalisation of more than twenty-four hours.  
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 
9. DEDUCTIBLE is a cost sharing requirement under a Health Insurance Policy that provides that the 
Insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of Indemnity policies and for a specified 
number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policies which will apply before any benefits are payable 
by the Insurer.  A deductible does not reduce the sum insured. 
10. DENTAL TREATMENT means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including 
examinations, fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery. 
11. DISCLOSURE TO INFORMATION NORM The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be 
forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any 
material fact 
12. EMERGENCY CARE Emergency care means management for an illness or injury which results in 
symptoms which occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical 
practitioner to prevent death or serious long term impairment of the Insured person’s health 
13. GRACE PERIOD means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date 
during which a payment can be made to renew or continue a policy in force without loss of continuity 
benefits such as waiting periods and coverage of pre-existing diseases.  Coverage is not available for 
the period for which no premium is received. 
14. HOSPITAL/NURSING HOME means any institution established for in-patient care and day care 
treatment of illness and/or injuries and which has been registered as a Hospital with the local 
authorities under the Clinical establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the 
enactments specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all 
minimum criteria as under 
- 
Has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock. 
- 
Has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10 lacs and at least 15 
in-patient beds in all other places; 
- 
Has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge round the clock; 
- 
Has a fully equipped Operation Theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out; 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
3 
 
- 
Maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance company’s 
authorized personnel. 
The term ' Hospital / Nursing Home ' shall not include an establishment which is a place of rest, a place 
for the aged, a place for drug-addicts or place for alcoholics, a hotel or a similar place. 
For Ayurvedic treatment, hospitalisation expenses are admissible only when the treatment has been 
undergone in a hospital as defined in clause V.4 below.  
15. HOSPITALISATION Means admission in a Hospital/Nursing Home for a minimum period of 24 In-
patient care consecutive hours except for the standard day care procedures/treatments as defined 
above, where such admission could be for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours. 
Note:  Procedures/treatments usually done in outpatient department are not payable under the policy 
even if admitted/converted as an in-patient in the hospital for more than 24 hours. 
16. ILLNESS means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal 
physiological function which manifests itself during the policy period and requires medical treatment. 
(a) Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to 
treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering 
the disease/ illness/ injury which leads to full recovery 
(b) Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or 
more of the following characteristics:  
1. It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and 
/or tests  
2. It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
3. It requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cope with it 
4. It continues indefinitely 
5. It recurs or is likely to recur 
17. INJURY means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused 
by external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical 
Practitioner. 
18. IN-PATIENT CARE means treatment for which the Insured Person has to stay in a hospital for   more 
than 24 hours for a covered event. 
19. INTENSIVE CARE UNIT means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the 
constant supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the 
continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require life support 
facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive 
than in the ordinary and other wards. 
20. INTENSIVE CARE UNIT (ICU) CHARGES means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses 
which shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU 
patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges. 
21. MATERNITY EXPENSES means; 
a. medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization); 
b. expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period. 
22. MEDICAL ADVICE means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issue of 
any prescription or repeat prescription. 
23. MEDICAL EXPENSES means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually 
incurred for medical treatment on account of illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical 
Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person had 
not been insured and no more than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged 
for the same medical treatment. 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
4 
 
24. MEDICALLY NECESSARY TREATMENT is defined as any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in hospital 
or part of a stay in hospital which is required for the medical management of the illness or injury 
suffered by the Insured; Must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and 
appropriate medical care in scope, duration or intensity; Must have been prescribed by a Medical 
Practitioner; Must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical 
practice or by the medical community in India. 
25. MEDICAL PRACTITIONER is a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any 
State of India or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by 
the Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its 
jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of license. The term Medical Practitioner 
would include Physician, Specialist and Surgeon.  The Registered Medical Practitioner should not be 
the Insured or any member of his family including parents and in-laws. 
26. MIGRATION means, the right accorded to health insurance policyholders (including all members 
under family cover and members of group health insurance policy), to transfer the credit gained for 
pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, with the same Insurer.  
27. NETWORK PROVIDER means the hospital/nursing home or health care providers enlisted by an 
Insurer or by a TPA and Insurer together to provide medical services to an Insured on payment by a 
cashless facility.  The list of Network Hospitals is maintained by and available with the TPA and the 
same is subject to amendment from time to time. 
PPN-Preferred Provider Network means a network of hospitals which have agreed to a cashless 
packaged pricing for certain procedures for the Insured Person. Updated list of network provider/PPN 
is available on website of the company (https://uiic.co.in/en/tpa-ppn-network-hospitals) and website 
of the TPA mentioned in the schedule and is subject to amendment from time to time.   
28. NEW BORN BABY means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged upto 90 days. 
29. NON-NETWORK HOSPITALS means any hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of 
the network. 
30. NOTIFICATION OF CLAIM is the process of notifying a claim to the Insurer or TPA within specified 
timelines through any of the recognised modes of communication. 
31. PORTABILITY means, the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including all 
members under family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound 
exclusions, from one Insurer to another Insurer. 
32. PRE-EXISTING DISEASE means any condition, ailment, injury or disease:  
a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy 
issued by the Insurer or its reinstatement or 
b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 
48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the Insurer or its reinstatement 
33. PRE – HOSPITALISATION MEDICAL EXPENSES 
Relevant medical expenses incurred immediately 30 days before the Insured Person is hospitalised 
provided that: 
a. Such Medical expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalisation was required; and 
b. The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by us. 
34. POST-HOSPITALISATION MEDICAL EXPENSES 
Relevant medical expenses incurred immediately 60 days after the Insured Person is discharged from 
the hospital provided that; 
a. Such Medical expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalisation was required; and 
b. The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by us. 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
5 
 
35. QUALIFIED NURSE means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or 
the Nursing Council of any State in India. 
36. REASONABLE AND CUSTOMARY CHARGES mean the charges for services or supplies, which are the 
standard charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the 
geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of illness/injury 
involved. 
37. RENEWAL defines the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent 
with a provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of all waiting 
periods. 
38. ROOM RENT shall mean the amount charged by a hospital for the Occupancy of a bed on per day (24 
hours) basis and shall include associated medical expenses. 
39. SURGERY OR SURGICAL PROCEDURE means manual and/or operative procedure(s) required for 
treatment of an illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, 
relief of suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or Day Care Centre by a Medical 
Practitioner. 
B. Specific Definitions 
40. AGE means age of the Insured person on last birthday as on date of commencement of the Policy. 
41. AIDS means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, a condition characterised by a combination of 
signs and symptoms, caused by Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), which attacks and weakens the 
body’s immune system making the HIV-positive person susceptible to life threatening conditions or 
other conditions, as may be specified from time to time. 
42. ASSOCIATED MEDICAL EXPENSES means hospitalisation related expenses on Surgeon, Anaesthetist, 
Medical Practitioner, Consultants and Specialist Fees whether paid directly to the treating doctor / 
surgeon or to the hospital; Anaesthetics, blood, oxygen, operation theatre charges, surgical appliances 
and such other similar expenses with the exception of: 
i. 
cost of pharmacy and consumables medicines 
ii. 
cost of implants/medical devices 
iii. 
cost of diagnostics 
The scope of this definition is limited to admissible claims where a proportionate deduction is 
applicable, as per Note a to Section V.1.1. 
43. AYUSH Treatment refers to hospitalisation treatments given Ayurveda, Unani and Homeopathy 
systems (covered under the Policy). 
44. BREAK IN POLICY means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing policy term, when the 
premium due for renewal on a given policy is not paid on or before the premium renewal date or 
within 30 days thereof. 
45. CANCELLATION defines the terms on which the policy contract can be terminated either by the Insurer 
or the Insured person by giving sufficient notice to other which is not lower than a period of fifteen 
days. 
46. CONTINUOUS COVERAGE means uninterrupted coverage of the Insured Person under the Health 
Insurance Policy from the date of inception of policy for the first time as mentioned in the policy 
schedule. However for the purpose of applying waiting periods, the break in insurance period for 
which the premium was not received shall be excluded from it. 
47. INSURED PERSON means person(s) named in the schedule of the Policy.    
48. PERIOD OF INSURANCE means the period for which this policy is taken and is in force as specified in 
the Schedule. 
49. POLICY means these Policy wordings, the Policy Schedule and any applicable endorsements or 
extensions attaching to or forming part thereof. The Policy contains details of the extent of cover 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
6 
 
available to the Insured Person, what is excluded from the cover and the terms & conditions on which 
the Policy is issued to The Insured Person 
50. PSYCHIATRIC DISORDER means clinically significant Psychological or behavioural syndrome that 
causes significant distress, disability or loss of freedom (and which is not merely a socially deviant 
behaviour or an expected response to a stressful life event) as certified by a Medical Practitioner 
specialized in the field of Psychiatry after physical examination of the Insured Person in respect of 
whom a claim is lodged. 
51. PSYCHOSOMATIC DISORDER means one or more psychological or behavioural problems that 
adversely and significantly affect the course and outcome of general medical condition or that 
significantly increase a person’s risk of an adverse outcome as certified by a Medical Practitioner 
specialized in the field of Psychiatry after Physical examination of the Insured Person in respect of 
whom a claim is lodged. 
52. SINGLE OCCUPANCY STANDARD AIR-CONDITIONED ROOM means an individual air-conditioned room 
for accommodating a single patient with attached wash room. This room may have a television, 
telephone and a couch. Such room must be the most economical of all such air-conditioned 
accommodations available in that hospital as single occupancy. This does not include deluxe room / 
suite or room with additional facilities other than those stated herein. 
53. SUB-LIMIT means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy in which an Insurer 
would not be liable to pay any amount in excess of the pre-defined limit. 
54. SUM INSURED means the pre-defined limit specified in the Policy Schedule that represents, the 
maximum, total and cumulative liability for any and all claims made under the Policy, in respect of that 
Insured Person (on Individual basis) or all Insured Persons (on Floater basis) during the policy period. 
55. THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATOR (TPA) means a company registered under the IRDAI (Third Party 
Administrators – Health Services) Regulations, 2016 notified by the Authority, and is engaged, for a 
fee or remuneration by an insurance company, for the purpose of providing health services as defined 
in the regulations.  
56. WAITING PERIOD means a period from the inception of this Policy during which specified 
diseases/treatments are not covered. On completion of the period, diseases/treatments shall be 
covered provided the Policy has been continuously renewed without any break.  
57. WE/OUR/US/COMPANY means UNITED INDIA INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED 
58. YOU/YOUR means the person who has taken this Policy and is shown as Insured Person or the first 
Insured Person (if more than one person covered in the policy) in the Schedule. 
 
V. COVERAGE 
The coverages available under this Policy are described below.  
BASE COVERS 
The Policy provides base coverage as described below in this section provided that the expenses are 
incurred on the written Medical Advice of a Medical Practitioner and are incurred on Medically Necessary 
Treatment of the Insured Person. 
 
1. In-patient Hospitalisation Expenses Cover 
We will pay the Reasonable and Customary Charges for the following Medical Expenses of an Insured 
Person in case of Medically Necessary Treatment taken during Hospitalisation provided that the admission 
date of the Hospitalisation due to Illness or Injury is within the Policy Year: 
 
A. Room, Boarding and Nursing expenses (all inclusive) incurred as provided by the Hospital/Nursing 
Home upto the limits provided below: 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
7 
 
Sum Insured 
Limit (Rs.) per day 
< Rs. 5 Lacs 
1% of Sum Insured  
Rs. 5 Lacs and Above  
1% of Sum Insured or Single Occupancy Standard Air-
Conditioned Room Charges whichever is higher 
These expenses will include nursing care, RMO charges, patient’s diet charges, IV Fluids/Blood 
transfusion/injection administration charges and similar expenses. 
 
B. Charges for accommodation in Intensive Care Unit (ICU)/ Intensive Cardiac Care Unit (ICCU) upto 
the limits provided below: 
Sum Insured 
Limit (Rs.) per day 
< Rs. 5 Lacs 
2% of Sum Insured  
Rs. 5 Lacs and Above 
Actuals 
 
C. The fees charged by the Medical Practitioner, Surgeon, Specialists and anaesthetists treating the 
Insured Person; 
D. Operation theatre charges,  
E. Anaesthesia, Blood, Oxygen, Surgical Appliances and/ or Medical Appliances, medicines and drugs, 
Cost of Artificial Limbs, cost of prosthetic devices implanted during surgical procedure like 
pacemaker, orthopaedic implants, infra cardiac valve replacements, vascular stents, relevant 
laboratory/ diagnostic tests, X-Ray, dialysis, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and such other similar 
medical expenses related to the treatment. 
1.1 Note: 
a. PROPORTIONATE PAYMENT CLAUSE: In case of admission to a room at rates exceeding the 
aforesaid limits in Clause V.1.A, the reimbursement/payment of all associated medical expenses 
incurred at the Hospital shall be effected in the same proportion as the admissible rate per day 
bears to the actual rate per day of Room Rent. 
Proportionate Deductions shall not be applied in respect of those hospitals where differential 
billing is not followed or for those expenses where differential billing is not adopted based on the 
room category. 
b. No payment shall be made under 1.C other than as part of the hospitalisation bill. However, the 
bills raised by Surgeon, Anaesthetist directly and not forming part of the hospital bill shall be paid 
provided a pre-numbered bill/receipt is produced in support thereof, when such payment is made 
ONLY by cheque/ credit card/debit card or digital/online transfer. 
 
1.2 Sub-limit: 
 
a. Cataract Surgery Limit: Expenses in respect of the Cataract surgeries will be restricted to 10% of 
Sum Insured subject to maximum of Rs. 50,000/- per eye. This limit is applicable per hospitalisation 
/ surgery. 
b. Mental Illness Cover Limit: In case of following mental illnesses the actual In-patient 
Hospitalization expenses will be covered upto 25% of Sum Insured subject to a maximum of Rs. 
3,00,000 per policy year;  
1. Schizophrenia (ICD - F20; F21; F25)  
2. Bipolar Affective Disorders (ICD - F31; F34)  
3. Depression (ICD - F32; F33)  
4. Obsessive Compulsive Disorders (ICD - F42; F60.5)  
5. Psychosis (ICD - F 22; F23; F28; F29)  
 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
8 
 
2. Day Care Treatment Cover- 
We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred on the Insured Person’s Day Care Treatment during the Policy 
Period following an Illness or Injury that occurs during the Policy Period provided that:   
i. 
The Medical Expenses are incurred in case of Day Care Treatment or Surgery undertaken for the 
Illness/ condition covered under Base Cover that requires less than 24 hours Hospitalisation due 
to advancement in technology, including for any procedure which requires a period of specialized 
observation or care after completion of the procedure undertaken by an Insured Person as Day 
Care Treatment. All Day Care Treatments as defined in the Section IV.A.8 of the policy above are 
covered.  
ii. 
The Day Care Treatment is for Medically Necessary Treatment and follows the written Medical 
Advice; 
iii. 
Procedures/treatments usually done on out-patient basis are not payable under the policy even if 
converted as an in-patient in the hospital for more than 24 hours or carried out in Day Care 
Centres. Diagnostic Services are also not covered under this benefit. 
 
3. Pre-Hospitalisation and Post-Hospitalisation Expenses –  
We will cover, on a reimbursement basis, the Insured Person’s 
a. Pre-hospitalisation Medical Expenses incurred due to an Illness or Injury during the period upto 
30 days prior to hospitalisation; and  
b. Post- hospitalisation Medical Expenses incurred due to an Illness or Injury during the period upto 
60 days after the discharge from the hospital,  
Subject to a maximum of 10% of Sum Insured, provided that:  
i. 
We have accepted a claim for primary In-patient Hospitalization under Section V.1 or V.2 above; 
ii. 
The Pre-hospitalisation and Post-hospitalisation Medical Expenses are related to the same Illness 
or Injury. 
iii. 
The date of admission to the Hospital for the purpose of this Benefit shall be the date of the 
Insured Person’s first admission to the Hospital in relation to the same Any One Illness.  
 
4. Ayurvedic/Homeopathic/Unani treatment –  
We will pay the reasonable & customary Charges incurred as in-patient for an Insured Person in case of 
Medically Necessary Treatment taken during Hospitalisation subject to the limits linked to the Sum 
Insured, as mentioned in the table below; 
Sum Insured (Rs.) 
Limit per Policy Period (Rs.)- Upto 
Upto 3,00,000 
10,000 
>3,00,000 to 15,00,000 
15,000 
>15,00,000 
25000 
 
Subject to the condition that the hospitalisation expenses are admissible only when the treatment has 
been undergone in an AYUSH HOSPITAL as defined hereunder: 
 
AYUSH HOSPITAL is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures and 
interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising any of the following 
i. 
Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or 
ii. 
Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognised by the Central Government/Central 
Council of Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or 
iii. 
AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognised 
system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the 
supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with the 
following criterion 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
9 
 
• 
Having at least 5 in-patient beds; 
• 
Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 
• 
Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation 
theatre where surgical procedures are carried out; 
• 
Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorised representative. 
 
5. Donor Expenses Cover 
We will cover the In-patient Hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred for an organ donor’s treatment 
during the Policy Period for the harvesting of the organ donated up to the Sum Insured provided that:  
i. 
The donation conforms to The Transplantation of Human Organs Act 1994 and the organ is for the 
use of the Insured Person;  
ii. 
We have admitted a claim towards In-patient Hospitalisation under the Base Cover and it is related 
to the same condition; organ donated is for the use of the Insured Person as certified in writing 
by a Medical Practitioner; 
iii. 
We will not cover:  
a. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses or Post-hospitalisation Medical Expenses of the organ donor;  
b. Screening expenses of the organ donor;  
c. Costs directly or indirectly associated with the acquisition of the donor’s organ;  
d. Transplant of any organ/tissue where the transplant is experimental or investigational;  
e. Expenses related to organ transportation or preservation;  
f. Any other medical treatment or complication in respect of the donor, consequent to harvesting.  
 
6. Organ Donor Benefit- When Insured Person is the Donor 
A lump sum payment of 10% of Sum Insured, to take care of medical and other incidental expenses is 
payable to the Insured Person donating an organ provided that the donation conforms to the 
Transplantation of Human Organs Act 1994 (amended) and any other extant Act, Central / State Rules / 
regulations, as applicable, in respect of transplantation of human organs. 
This benefit is subject to the Policy (Family Medicare Policy) having been continuously in force for at least 
12 (twelve) months in respect of that Insured Person. 
 
7. Road Ambulance Cover 
We will cover the costs incurred up to: 
i. 
0.5% of the Sum Insured subject to a maximum of Rs. 2500 per event and  
ii. 
1% of the Sum Insured subject to a maximum of Rs. 5000 per policy period  
on transportation of the Insured Person by road Ambulance to a Hospital for treatment in an Emergency 
following an Illness or Injury which occurs during the Policy Period. The necessity of use of an Ambulance 
must be certified by the treating Medical Practitioner and becomes payable if a claim has been admitted 
under Section V.1 or V.2 and the expenses are related to the same Illness or Injury. 
We will also cover the costs incurred on transportation of the Insured Person by road Ambulance in the 
following circumstances up to the limits specified above under this cover, if:     
a. it is medically required to transfer the Insured Person to another Hospital or diagnostic centre 
during the course of Hospitalization for advanced diagnostic treatment in circumstances where 
such facility is not available in the existing Hospital;  
b. it is medically required to transfer the Insured Person to another Hospital during the course of 
Hospitalization due to lack of super speciality treatment in the existing Hospital.  
 
 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
10 
 
8. Cost of Health Check-up 
Expenses incurred towards cost of health check-up up to 1% of average Sum Insured of preceding 3 years, 
subject to a maximum of Rs. 5,000 per person for policies issued on individual sum insured basis/ Rs. 
10,000 per policy period for policies issued on floater basis for a block of every three claim-free years 
provided the health check-up is done at hospitals/diagnostic centre authorised by us within a year from 
the date when it got due and the policy is in force. Payment under this benefit does not reduce the sum 
Insured. 
In case of the policy on floater basis, if a claim is made by any of the Insured Persons, the health check-up 
benefits will not be available under the policy. 
Note: Payment of expenses towards cost of health check-up will not prejudice the company's right to deal 
with a claim in case of non-disclosure of material fact and / or Pre-Existing Diseases in terms of the policy. 
 
9. Modern Treatment Methods & Advancement in Technologies: 
In case of an admissible claims under Section V.1/ V.2 as applicable, Expenses incurred on the following 
procedures (wherever medically indicated) either as in-patient or as part of day care treatment in a 
hospital, shall be covered. The claim shall be subject to additional sub-limits indicated against them in the 
table below: 
Sr. 
No. 
Treatment Methods & Advancement in 
Technology 
Additional Limit 
A 
Uterine Artery Embolization & High Intensity 
Focussed Ultrasound (HIFU) 
Upto 20% of Sum Insured subject to a maximum of Rs. 2 
Lacs per policy period for claims involving Uterine Artery 
Embolization & HIFU 
B 
Balloon Sinuplasty 
Upto 10% of Sum Insured subject to a maximum of Rs. 1 
Lac per policy period for claims involving Balloon 
Sinuplasty 
C 
Deep Brain Stimulation 
Upto 70% of Sum Insured per policy period for claims 
involving Deep Brain Stimulation 
D 
Oral Chemotherapy 
Upto 20% of Sum Insured subject to a maximum of Rs. 2 
Lacs per policy period for claims involving Oral 
Chemotherapy 
E 
Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be 
given as injection 
Upto 20% of Sum Insured subject to a maximum of Rs. 2 
Lacs per policy period 
F 
Intra vitreal Injections 
Upto 10% of Sum Insured subject to a maximum of Rs. 1 
Lac per policy period 
G 
Robotic Surgeries (including Robotic Assisted 
Surgeries) 
 
• 
Upto 75% of Sum Insured per policy period for claims 
involving Robotic Surgeries for (i) the treatment of any 
disease involving Central Nervous System irrespective 
of aetiology; (ii) Malignancies 
• 
Upto 50% of Sum Insured per policy period for claims 
involving Robotic Surgeries for other diseases 
H 
Stereotactic Radio Surgeries 
Upto 50% of Sum Insured per policy period for claims 
involving Stereotactic Radio Surgeries 
I 
Bronchial Thermoplasty 
Upto 30% of Sum Insured subject to a maximum of Rs. 3 
Lacs per policy period for claims involving Bronchial 
Thermoplasty 
J 
Vaporisation of the Prostate (Green laser 
treatment or holmium laser treatment) 
Upto 30% of Sum Insured subject to a maximum of Rs. 2 
Lacs per policy period 
K 
Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring (IONM) 
Upto 15% of Sum Insured per policy period for claims 
involving Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
11 
 
L 
Stem Cell Therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells 
for bone marrow transplant for 
haematological conditions to be covered only 
No additional sub-limit 
 
Note on Co-payment:  
For persons with age of entry above 60 years in Family Medicare Policy, every admissible claim under 
Base Cover 1 to 5, 7 and 9 above shall be subject to a Co-payment of 10% on the admissible claim 
amount. 
 
OPTIONAL COVERS: 
10. Restoration of Sum Insured 
If the Basic Sum Insured is exhausted completely or partially due to claims made and paid/ accepted as 
payable during the Policy Year, then it is agreed that a Restore Sum Insured equal to 100% of the Basic 
Sum Insured will be automatically and instantly available for the particular Policy Year, provided that: 
a. In case of policies on Individual Sum Insured basis the Restore sum insured, will be available to 
each Insured Person individually and in case of a floater policy, the restore Sum Insured will be 
available for all Insured Persons on floater basis. 
b. A single claim in a Policy Year cannot exceed the Basic Sum Insured. 
c. Such restored Sum Insured can be utilized only for illness / disease unrelated to the illness / 
diseases for which claim(s) was / were made. 
d. The Restoration of Sum Insured will be applied only once during a Policy Year for family floater 
policy. For Policy on Individual Sum Insured basis, the restore facility will be available once to each 
Insured Person individually in a policy year. 
e. If the Restore Sum Insured is not utilised in a Policy Year, it shall not be carried forward to any 
subsequent Policy Year. 
 
10.1 Automatic Restoration of Basic Sum Insured is available only for sum insured options from Rs. 
3,00,000 and above. 
 
10.2 For persons with age of entry above 60 years in Family Medicare Policy, every admissible claim under 
this optional cover shall be subject to a Co-payment of 10% on the admissible claim amount. 
 
11. Maternity Expenses and New Born Baby Cover 
a. Maternity Expenses: We shall pay the Medical Expenses incurred as an In-patient for a delivery 
(including caesarean section) or lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period 
limited to two deliveries or terminations or either during the lifetime of the Insured Person. This 
benefit is applicable only when the Sum Insured is above Rs. 3 Lacs, and available only to the 
Insured or his spouse, provided that: 
i. 
Family Medicare Policy with this optional cover has been continuously in force for a period of 
minimum 24 months. 
ii. 
Those Insured Persons who are already having two or more living children will not be eligible 
for this benefit 
iii. 
Company’s maximum liability per delivery or termination shall be limited to 10% of the Sum 
Insured as stated in the Schedule subject to a maximum of Rs. 40000 in case of normal delivery 
and Rs. 60000 in case of caesarean section and in no case shall the Company’s liability under 
this clause exceed 10% of the Sum Insured, in any one Policy Period. 
b. New Born Baby Cover: New born Baby shall be covered from day one upto the age of 90 days and 
expenses incurred for treatment taken in Hospital as in-patient shall only be payable, provided 
that: 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
12 
 
i. 
Claim under Maternity clause is admissible under the Policy 
ii. 
Company’s liability shall be limited to 10% of the Sum Insured as stated in the Schedule. 
iii. 
In case the 90-days period for the New Born Baby is spread over two Policy Periods, the 
aggregate liability of the Company, for all claims in respect of the New Born Baby, shall be 
limited to 10% of the Sum Insured of the Policy under which Maternity claim was admitted. 
 
11.1 
Special conditions applicable to Maternity Expenses and New Born Baby Cover 
i. 
These benefits are admissible only if the expenses are incurred in Hospital/Nursing Home as 
in-patients in India. 
ii. 
Surrogate or vicarious pregnancy is not covered. 
iii. 
Expenses incurred in connection with voluntary medical termination of pregnancy during the 
first twelve weeks from the date of conception are not covered. 
iv. 
Pre-natal and post-natal expenses are not covered unless admitted in Hospital/Nursing Home 
and treatment is taken there. 
v. 
Pre Hospitalisation and Post-Hospitalisation benefits are not available under these two 
clauses. 
vi. 
Subject to the terms & conditions, the Policy covers New Born Baby beyond 90 days only on 
payment of requisite premium. 
If this Option is in force in respect of the Insured Person, then the relevant part of Exclusion VI.B.14 will 
be deemed inoperative for the purpose of this Option. 
 
12. Daily Cash Allowance on Hospitalisation 
We will pay Daily Cash Allowance to the Insured Person for every continuous and completed period of 24 
hours of Hospitalisation, subject to the hospitalisation claim being admissible under the policy, as per the 
table below: 
 
Sum Insured 
Limit (Rs.) per day 
Upto Rs. 5 Lacs 
Rs. 500 per day subject to a maximum of Rs. 5000 per policy period 
Above Rs. 5 Lacs and upto 
Rs. 15 Lacs 
Rs. 1000 per day subject to a maximum of Rs. 10000 per policy period 
Above Rs. 15 Lacs and upto 
Rs. 25 Lacs 
Rs. 2000 per day subject to a maximum of Rs. 20000 per policy period 
 
The aggregate of Daily Cash Allowance during the policy period shall not exceed ‘per policy period limits’ 
as mentioned in the table above. 
Daily Cash Allowance will not be payable for Day Care Procedure claims where the hospitalisation is less 
than 24 hours. Deductible equivalent to Daily Cash Allowance for the first 24 hours Hospitalization will be 
levied on each Hospitalisation during the Policy Period. 
 
VI. STANDARD EXCLUSIONS & WAITING PERIODS 
A. WAITING PERIODS 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy in connection with or in respect of 
following expenses till the expiry of waiting period mentioned below: 
 
1. Pre-Existing Disease (Code- Excl01): 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing disease (PED) and its direct complications shall 
be excluded until the expiry of 48 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of 
the first policy with us.  
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
13 
 
b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum 
insured increase. 
c. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the portability 
norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then waiting period for the same would 
be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d. Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 48 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to 
the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by us. 
 
2. Specific Disease/ Procedure Waiting Period (Code- Excl02): 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments as per Table A 
and Table B below, shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 months and 48 months respectively of 
continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first policy with us. This exclusion shall not 
be applicable for claims arising due to an accident.  
b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum 
insured increase.  
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-Existing 
diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the policy or declared 
and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable 
norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to 
the extent of prior coverage. 
f. List of specific diseases/procedures: 
 
Table A. Two years waiting period  
1. All internal and external benign tumours, 
cysts, polyps of any kind, including benign 
breast lumps 
10. Piles, Fissures and Fistula-in-ano; 
Pilonidal sinus 
2. Benign ENT disorders  
11. Prolapse intervertebral Disc and Spinal 
Diseases unless arising from Accident 
3. Benign prostatic hypertrophy 
12. Benign Skin Disorders 
4. Cataract  
13. Calculus diseases 
5. Acid Peptic diseases 
14. Treatment for 
Menorrhagia/Fibromyoma, Myoma 
and Prolapse of uterus 
6. Gout and Rheumatism 
15. Any treatment for varicose veins and 
ulcers including surgical intervention 
7. Hernia of all types 
16. Polycystic ovarian disease 
8. Hydrocele 
17. Internal Congenital Anomaly 
9. Non infective Arthritis 
 
 
Table B. Four years waiting period  
1. Joint Replacement due to Degenerative condition, unless necessitated due to an 
accident. 
2. Age-related Osteoarthritis & Osteoporosis 
3. Age-related Macular Degeneration (ARMD) 
4. Named Mental Illnesses: 
a. Schizophrenia (ICD - F20; F21; F25)  
b. Bipolar Affective Disorders (ICD - F31; F34)  
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
14 
 
c. Depression (ICD - F32; F33)  
d. Obsessive Compulsive Disorders (ICD - F42; F60.5)  
e. Psychosis (ICD - F 22; F23; F28; F29)  
5. All Neurodegenerative disorders 
 
3. First Thirty Days Waiting Period (Code- Excl03): 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident. 
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous Coverage for more 
than twelve months. 
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in the event 
of granting higher sum insured subsequently.   
 
The exclusions under VI.A.1-3 are subject to Portability Regulations. 
B. STANDARD PERMANENT EXCLUSIONS 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy, in respect of any expenses 
incurred in connection with or in respect of: 
1. Investigation & Evaluation (Code- Excl04): 
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are 
excluded. 
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and 
treatment are excluded. 
2. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code- Excl05): Expenses related to any admission primarily 
for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also includes: 
a. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or 
assistant or non-skilled persons.  
b. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and 
spiritual needs. 
3. Obesity/ Weight Control (Code- Excl06): Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that 
does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
A. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor 
B. The surgery/procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols 
C. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
D. Body Mass Index (BMI);  
a. greater than or equal to 40 or 
b. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities 
following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 
i. 
Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. 
Coronary heart disease  
iii. 
Severe Sleep Apnoea 
iv. 
Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
4. Change-of-Gender treatments (Code- Excl07): Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical 
management, to change characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex. 
5. Cosmetic or Plastic Surgery (Code- Excl08): Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment 
to change appearance unless for reconstruction following an accident, burn(s) or cancer or as part of 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
15 
 
medically necessary treatment.   For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by 
the attending Medical Practitioner.  
6. Hazardous or Adventure sports (Code- Excl09): Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due 
to participation as a professional in hazardous or adventure sports, including but not limited to, para-
jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand 
gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving.  
7. Breach of law (Code- Excl10): Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any 
Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. 
8. Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences 
thereof. (Code- Excl12) 
9. Treatments received in health hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private 
beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged 
wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Code- Excl13) 
10. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but not 
limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a medical practitioner as 
part of hospitalisation claim or day care procedure. (Code- Excl14)  
11. Refractive Error (Code- Excl15): Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eyesight due to 
refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres. 
12. Unproven Treatments (Code- Excl16): Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and 
supplies for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures 
or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support their effectiveness.  
13. Sterility and Infertility (Code- Excl17): Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: 
i. 
Any type of contraception, sterilization 
ii. 
Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive 
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 
iii. 
Gestational Surrogacy 
iv. 
Reversal of sterilization 
14. Maternity (Code- Excl18): 
a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during hospitalisation) except ectopic pregnancy; 
b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical termination of 
pregnancy during the policy period. 
C. SPECIFIC PERMANENT EXCLUSIONS 
 
15. All expenses caused by or arising from or attributable to foreign invasion, act of foreign enemies, 
hostilities, warlike operations (whether war be declared or not or while performing duties in the 
armed forces of any country), civil war, public defence, rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or 
usurped power. 
16. All Illness/expenses caused by ionizing radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear 
fuel (explosive or hazardous form) or from any nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel 
nuclear, chemical or biological attack. 
17. a) Stem cell implantation/Surgery/therapy, harvesting, storage or any kind of Treatment using stem 
cells except as provided for in Clause V.9.L above; b) growth hormone therapy.   
18. Congenital External Diseases, Defects or anomalies.  
19. Circumcision unless necessary for Treatment of an Illness or Injury not excluded hereunder or due to 
an Accident. 
20. Cost of routine medical examination and preventive health check-up unless as provided for in Base 
Cover V.8 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
16 
 
21. Vaccination or inoculation of any kind unless it is post animal bite. 
22. Routine eye-examinations, cost of spectacles, contact lenses. 
23. a) Cost of hearing aids; including optometric therapy; b) cochlear implants unless necessitated by an 
Accident or required intra-operatively. 
24. Dental treatment or surgery of any kind unless necessitated by accident and requiring hospitalisation. 
25. Any treatment related to sleep disorder or sleep apnoea syndrome 
26. Intentional self-inflicted Injury, attempted suicide.  
27. Treatments other than Allopathy and Ayurvedic, Homeopathic & Unani branches of medicine. 
28. Any expenses incurred on Domiciliary Hospitalization 
29. Any expenses incurred on Out-patient treatment (OPD treatment)  
30. Unless used intra-operatively, any expenses incurred on prosthesis, corrective devices; External and 
or durable Medical / Non-medical equipment of any kind used for diagnosis and/or treatment and/or 
monitoring and/or maintenance and/or support including instruments used in treatment of sleep 
apnoea syndrome; Infusion pump, Oxygen concentrator, Ambulatory devices, sub cutaneous insulin 
pump and also any medical equipment, which are subsequently used at home. This is indicative and 
please refer to Annexure-1 for the complete list of non-payable items. 
31. Change of treatment from one system of medicine to another system unless recommended by the 
consultant/hospital under whom the treatment is taken. 
32. Treatments including Rotational Field Quantum Magnetic Resonance (RFQMR), External Counter 
Pulsation (ECP), Enhanced External Counter Pulsation (EECP), Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy, 
chondrocyte or osteocyte implantation, procedures using platelet rich plasma, Trans Cutaneous 
Electric Nerve Stimulation; Use of oral immunomodulatory/ supplemental drugs. 
33. Artificial life maintenance including life support machine use, from the date of confirmation by the 
treating doctor that the patient is in a vegetative state 
34. Any item(s) or treatment specified in ‘list of expenses (non-medical) – payable/ non-payable’ as per 
Annexure-1 and available on Company web site also, unless specifically covered under the Policy.  
 
VII. TERMS AND CLAUSES 
A. STANDARD GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES 
 
1. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability: The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled 
by the Insured Person for the Company to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. 
 
2. Complete Discharge: Any payment to the Policyholder, Insured Person or his/her nominees or his/her 
legal representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the policy 
shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for 
the particular claim. 
 
3. Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest) 
i. 
The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date 
of receipt of last necessary document. 
ii. 
In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to 
the Policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment 
of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate. 
iii. 
However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the 
Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later 
than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, the Company 
shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document. 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
17 
 
iv. 
In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
Policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document to the date of payment of claim. 
 
(Explanation: "Bank rate" shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBl) at the 
beginning of the financial year in which claim has fallen due). 
 
4. Multiple Policies:   
i. 
ln case of multiple policies taken by an Insured Person during a period from one or more 
Insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Person shall have the right to require a 
settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. ln all such cases the Insurer 
chosen by the Insured Person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within 
the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen policy. 
ii. 
lnsured Person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this 
policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the sum insured is 
not exhausted. Then the Insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and 
conditions of this policy. 
iii. 
If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the Insured Person 
shall have the right to choose Insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount. 
iv. 
Where an Insured Person has policies from more than one Insurer to cover the same risk on 
indemnity basis, the Insured Person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy 
  
5. Fraud: 
 lf any claim made by the Insured Person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or 
declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the 
Insured Person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits 
under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.  
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later 
shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/Policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be 
jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the Insurer. 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed by 
the Insured Person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the 
Insured Person, with intent to deceive the Insurer or to induce the Insurer to issue an insurance policy:  
a) 
the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured Person does not 
believe to be true;  
b) 
the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Person having knowledge or belief of the 
fact;  
c) 
any other act fitted to deceive; and  
d) 
any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent  
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, 
if the Insured Person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his 
knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of 
or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the Insurer. 
 
6. Cancellation: 
i. 
The Policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15 days' written notice and in such an event, 
the Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below: 
 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
18 
 
CANCELLATION AFTER PERIOD ON RISK        
RATE OF PREMIUM TO BE REFUNDED 
Upto one month                       
3/4th of the annual rate 
>one month and upto three months                    1/2 of the annual rate 
>three months and upto six months                    1/4th of the annual rate 
Exceeding six months               
No refund 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be 
made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or 
any benefit has been availed by the Insured Person under the policy.  
ii. 
The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation, non-
disclosure of material facts, fraud by the Insured Person by giving 15 days' written notice. 
There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non-
disclosure of material facts or fraud. 
 
7. Migration: 
The Insured Person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance products/plans 
offered by the company by applying for migration of the policy at least 30 days before the policy 
renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. lf such person is presently covered and has been 
continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance product/plan offered by the 
company, the Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI 
guidelines on migration. For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link: 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/whatsNew_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1 
 
8. Portability: 
The Insured Person will have the option to port the policy to other Insurers by applying to such Insurer 
to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but 
not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related to portability. If 
such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any 
health insurance policy with an Indian General/Health Insurer, the proposed Insured Person will get 
the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on portability 
 
For detailed Guidelines on Portability, kindly refer the link: 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/whatsNew_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1 
 
9. Renewal of Policy: 
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the Insured 
Person. 
i. 
The Company shall endeavour to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under 
obligation to give any notice for renewal.  
ii. 
Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the Insured Person had made a claim or claims 
in the preceding policy years. 
iii. 
Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before 
the end of the policy period.  
iv. 
At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the 
Grace Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. Coverage 
is not available during the grace period. 
v. 
No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience 
 
 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
19 
 
10. Withdrawal of Policy: 
i. 
ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the 
Insured Person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy.  
ii. 
lnsured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product 
available with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits 
such as waiver of waiting period. as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has been 
maintained without a break. 
 
11. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy including the Premium Rates: 
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the 
premium rates. The Insured Person shall be notified three months before the changes are effected. 
 
12. Free look period: 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new Family Medicare policies and not on renewals or at 
the time of porting/migrating the policy. The Insured Person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen 
days from date of receipt of the policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and 
to return the same if not acceptable. lf the Insured has not made any claim during the Free Look 
Period, the Insured shall be entitled to  
i. 
A refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical 
examination of the Insured Person and the stamp duty charges or 
ii. 
Where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by 
the Insured Person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover 
or 
iii. 
Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium 
commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period; 
 
13. Redressal of grievance 
In case of any grievance the Insured Person may contact the Company through: 
 
Website: www.uiic.co.in  
Toll free: 1800 425 333 33 
E-mail: customercare@uiic.co.in  
Courier: Customer Care Department, Head Office, United India Insurance Co. Ltd., 19, IV Lane, 
Nungambakkam High Road, Chennai, Tamil Nadu- 600034 
 
Insured Person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the Company's branches with the details 
of grievance.  
If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, 
Insured Person may contact the grievance officer at customercare@uiic.co.in  
For 
updated 
details 
of 
grievance 
officer, 
kindly 
refer 
the 
link 
https://uiic.co.in/en/customercare/grievance  
 
If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the Insured 
Person may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for 
redressal of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017. The contact details of the Insurance 
Ombudsman offices have been provided as Annexure-2. 
 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
20 
 
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management System: 
https://igms.irda.gov.in/  
 
14. Nomination: 
The Policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of 
payment of claims under the policy in the event of death of the Policyholder. Any change of 
nomination shall be communicated to the company in writing and such change shall be effective only 
when an endorsement on the policy is made. ln the event of death of the Policyholder, the Company 
will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in 
case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the Policyholder 
whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the policy. 
 
B. SPECIFIC TERMS AND CLAUSES 
 
15. Claim Procedure  
a. Notification of claim  
Upon the happening of any event which may give rise to a claim under this Policy, the Insured 
Person/Insured Person’s representative shall notify the TPA (if claim is processed by 
TPA)/company (if claim is processed by the company) in writing providing all relevant information 
relating to claim including plan of treatment, policy number etc. within the prescribed time limit 
as under: 
i. 
Within 24 hours from the date of emergency hospitalization required or before the 
Insured Person’s discharge from Hospital, whichever is earlier. 
ii. 
At least 48 hours prior to admission in Hospital in case of a planned Hospitalization. 
 
 
b. Procedure for Cashless claims  
 
i. 
Cashless facility for treatment in network hospitals only shall be available to Insured if 
opted for claim processing by TPA.  
ii. 
Treatment may be taken in a network provider/PPN hospital and is subject to pre 
authorization by the TPA. Booklet containing list of network provider/PPN hospitals shall 
be provided by the TPA. Updated list of network provider/PPN is available on website of 
the company (https://uiic.co.in/en/tpa-ppn-network-hospitals) and the TPA mentioned in 
the schedule.  
iii. 
Call the TPA’s toll free phone number provided on the health ID card for intimation of 
claim and related assistance. Inform the ID number for easy reference 
iv. 
On admission in the network provider/PPN hospital, produce the ID card issued by the 
TPA at the Hospital Helpdesk. Cashless request form available with the network 
provider/PPN and TPA shall be completed and sent to the TPA for authorization.  
v. 
The TPA upon getting cashless request form and related medical information from the 
Insured Person/ network provider/PPN shall issue pre-authorization letter to the hospital 
after verification.  
vi. 
At the time of discharge, the Insured Person shall verify and sign the discharge papers and 
pay for non-medical and inadmissible expenses.  
vii. 
The TPA reserves the right to deny pre-authorization in case the Insured Person is unable 
to provide the relevant medical details.  
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
21 
 
viii. 
Denial of a Pre-authorization request is in no way to be construed as denial of treatment 
or denial of coverage. The Insured Person may get the treatment as per treating doctor’s 
advice and submit the claim documents to the TPA for possible reimbursement.  
 
c. Procedure for reimbursement of claims  
i. 
In non-network hospitals payment must be made up-front and for reimbursement of claims 
the Insured Person may submit the necessary documents to TPA (if claim is processed by 
TPA)/company (if claim is processed by the company) within the prescribed time limit.  
ii. 
Claims for Pre and Post-Hospitalization will be settled on reimbursement basis on production 
of relevant claim papers and cash receipts within the prescribed time limit. 
iii. 
Claims for Cost of Health Check-up will be settled on reimbursement basis on production of 
test reports and cash receipts within the prescribed time limit.  
 
d. Documents  
The claim is to be supported with the following original documents and submitted within the 
prescribed time limit.  
i. 
Duly completed claim form  
ii. 
Attending medical practitioner’s / surgeon’s certificate regarding diagnosis/ nature of 
operation performed, along with date of diagnosis, advise for admission, investigation test 
reports etc. supported by the prescription from attending medical practitioner. 
iii. 
Medical history of the patient recorded, bills (including break up of charges) and payment 
receipts duly supported by the prescription from attending medical practitioner/ hospital. 
iv. 
Discharge certificate/ summary from the hospital. 
v. 
Cash-memo from the Diagnostic Centre(s)/ hospital(s)/ chemist(s) supported by proper 
prescription. 
vi. 
Payment receipts from doctors, surgeons and anaesthetist.   
vii. 
Bills, receipt, Sticker of the Implants. 
viii. 
Any other document required by company/ TPA  
Note  
In the event of a claim lodged as per Settlement under multiple policies clause and the original 
documents having been submitted to the other Insurer, the company may accept the duly certified 
documents listed under condition VII.6.d and claim settlement advice duly certified by the other 
Insurer subject to satisfaction of the company. 
e. Time Limits for Submission of Documents: 
 
Type of claim  
Time limit for submission of documents 
to company/TPA  
Reimbursement of hospitalisation and pre 
hospitalisation expenses (limited to 30 days) 
Within 15 (fifteen) days of date of 
discharge from hospital  
Reimbursement 
of 
post-hospitalisation 
expenses (limited to 60 days) 
Within 15 (fifteen) days from completion 
of post-hospitalisation treatment  
Reimbursement of Cost of Health Check-up 
Within 15 (fifteen) days from Health 
Check-up 
Note:  
i. 
Waiver of this Condition may be considered in extreme cases of hardship where it is 
proved to the satisfaction of the Company that under the circumstances in which the 
Insured was placed it was not possible for him or any other person to give such notice or 
file claim within the prescribed time-limit. 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
22 
 
ii. 
The company shall only accept bills/invoices/medical treatment related documents only 
in the Insured Person’s name for whom the claim is submitted. 
iii. 
The Insured Person shall also give the TPA / Company such additional information and 
assistance as the TPA / Company may require in dealing with the claim including an 
authorisation to obtain Medical and other records from the hospital, lab, etc. 
iv. 
All the documents submitted to TPA shall be electronically collected by us for 
settlement/denial of the claims by the appropriate authority. 
v. 
Any medical practitioner or Authorised Person authorised by the TPA / Company shall be 
allowed to examine the Insured Person in case of any alleged injury or disease leading to 
Hospitalisation if so required. 
 
f. Services Offered by TPA 
Servicing of claims i.e. claim admissions and assessments, under this Policy by way of pre-
authorization of cashless treatment or processing of claims, as per the terms and conditions of the 
policy.  
The services offered by a TPA shall not include 
i. 
Claim settlement and claim rejection;  
ii. 
Any services directly to any Insured Person or to any other person unless such service is 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement entered into with the 
Company. 
 
16. Premium: 
a. Unless full premium is paid before commencement of risk, this Policy shall have no effect. 
 
b. Premium can be paid online for both, new policy and renewals.  
c. PAN details must be submitted by the Insured. In case PAN is not available, Form 60 or Form 61 
must be submitted. 
d. Tax rebate available as per provision of Income Tax rules under Section 80-D. 
 
17.   Place of treatment and Payment: 
a. This Policy covers only medical/surgical treatment taken in India. 
b. Admissible claims shall be payable only in Indian Rupees. 
c. Payment shall be made directly to Network Hospital if cashless facility is applied for before 
treatment and accepted by TPA. If TPA does not accept the request for Cashless facility, bills shall 
be submitted after payment under Reimbursement. However, submission of claim papers does 
not mean admission of claim. 
 
18.  Communication:  
a. All communication should be in writing.  
b. For ID card, PPN/network provider related issues, claim serviced by TPA, communication should 
be made to the TPA at the address mentioned in the schedule. For claim serviced by the company, 
policy related issues or change in address, communication should be made to the policy issuing 
office at the address mentioned in the schedule.  
c. Insured will disclose all material information during the policy period such as change in occupation 
in writing to the policy issuing office. 
d. The company or TPA shall communicate to the Insured Person at the address mentioned in the 
schedule.  
e. No waiver of any terms, provisions, conditions and endorsements of this policy shall be valid 
unless made in writing and signed by an authorised official of the Company. 
 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
23 
 
19.  Basis of Insurance:  
a. This policy is issued on the basis of the truth and accuracy of statements in the Proposal. 
b. This policy shall be void and all premium paid hereon shall be forfeited to the Company, in the 
event of fraud, misrepresentation or misdescription or non-disclosure of any material fact. 
c. The Proposal Form, Prospectus, Pre-acceptance Health check-up report (if carried out) and the 
Policy issued shall constitute complete contract of insurance. 
 
20.  Change of Sum Insured 
 
i. 
The Insured member can apply for change (Increase/ Decrease) of Sum Insured at the time 
of renewal, subject to underwriting, by submitting a fresh proposal form/ written request 
to the company. Any request for increase of Sum Insured must be accompanied by a 
declaration that the Insured or any other Insured Person in respect of whom such 
enhancement is sought is not aware of any symptoms or other indications that may give 
rise to a claim under the policy. The Company may require such Insured Person/s to 
undergo a Medical examination to enable the company to take a decision on accepting 
the request for enhancement in the Sum Insured. 
ii. 
The acceptance of enhancement of Sum Insured would be at the discretion of the 
company, based on the health condition of the insured members & claim history of the 
policy.  
iii. 
All waiting periods as defined in the Policy shall apply for the incremental portion of the 
Sum Insured from the effective date of enhancement of such Sum Insured considering 
such Policy Period as the first Policy with the Company.  
 
21. Arbitration 
i. 
If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under the policy 
(liability being otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other 
questions be referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the 
parties or if they cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking 
arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three arbitrators, comprising of two 
arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the parties to the dispute/difference and the 
third arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration shall be conducted 
under and in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, 
as amended by Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (No. 3 of 2016). 
ii. 
It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be referable to 
arbitration as herein before provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted 
liability under or in respect of this Policy. 
iii. 
It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any 
right of action or suit upon this policy that award by such arbitrator/arbitrators of the 
amount of the loss or damage shall be first obtained. 
 
22.  Limitation:  
If a claim is declined and within 12 calendar months from such disclaimer any suit or proceeding is not 
filed then the claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been abandoned and shall not thereafter 
be recoverable hereunder. 
 
 
 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
24 
 
VIII. LOADING & DISCOUNTS 
a. No Claim Discount  
The Insured shall be entitled for No Claim Discount of 5% every claim free year under Family 
Medicare Policy on renewal premium and for every subsequent claim free year subject to a 
maximum of 15%.  
N.B: No Claim Discount will be withdrawn if policy is not renewed within the grace period allowed 
under the policy or in the event of any claim reported under the expiring policy. 
b. Family Discount 
In case of policies issued on Individual Sum Insured Basis, 5% family discount will be allowed if 
more than one persons of a family are covered. 
c. Online Discount 
A Discount of 10% will be applicable for fresh policies purchased online through the Company’s 
website. For renewals, the same discount of 10% shall be offered provided the original policy was 
purchased online through the Company’s website and all subsequent renewals are only made 
through the Company’s website. 
d. Underwriting Loading for Pre-existing Conditions 
We may apply a risk loading on the premium payable (excluding statutory levies & taxes) based 
on your health status if accepted at the time of underwriting. Loadings will be applied from 
Inception Date of the first Policy including subsequent renewal(s).  
The loadings are applicable on individual ailments only. In case of loading on two or more ailments, 
the loadings shall apply in conjunction on additive basis. However, maximum risk loading per 
individual shall not exceed 50% of Premium excluding applicable Taxes. In case of floater policies, 
where more than one individual have applicable loading for pre-existing condition, the highest of 
the total loading of the individuals irrespective of age, shall be applied upto a maximum of 50% of 
premium.  
Details of applicable loadings by ailments/ condition are listed as under: 
 
 
S.No. 
 
List of Acceptable Conditions 
(subject to other co-existing conditions) 
Applicable 
Underwriting 
Loading (%) 
1 
Haemolytic  Anaemia 
10 
2 
Asthma 
10 
3 
Epilepsy 
10 
4 
Renal Stones 
10 
5 
Diabetes Mellitus 
20 
6 
Hypertension 
20 
 
Note: The application of loading does not mean that the illness/ condition, for which loading 
has been applied, would be covered from inception. Any waiting period as mentioned in Section 
VI.A.1 above shall be applied on illness/condition, as applicable. 
 
IX. IRDAI REGULATIONS  
 
This policy is subject to Provisions of Insurance Act, 1938, IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations 
2016 and IRDAI (Protection of Policyholders’ Interest) Regulations 2017 as amended from time to 
time. 
 
* * * * * * * * * * * 
 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
25 
 
  
  
                       UNITED INDIA INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED   
Policy Issuing Office Address 
PH:  (****) *******        EMAIL:****@**** 
 
 
FAMILY MEDICARE POLICY 
UIN NO. UIIHLIP22070V042122 
POLICY NO.:  
 
  
  
  
PERIOD OF INSURANCE  
FROM --:--  Hrs  on dd/mm/yyyy   
To MIDNIGHT on dd/mm/yyyy 
 
 
  
Insured 
Name 
 
Address  
 
 
 
  
  
  Agent Name  
 
 
 
:  
Agent Code  
 
 
 
:  
Mobile/Landline Number/Email  
:       /  
  
   
 
 
 
     
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE: KINDLY UPDATE YOUR AADHAAR NO. AND PAN/FORM 60. PLEASE IGNORE IF ALREADY UPDATED. 
 
For any Information, Service Requests and Grievances please write to 
officecode@uiic.co.in 
 
For ID Cards & Claim Intimations Please contact the TPA mentioned in the Policy 
document. 
  
REGD. & HEAD OFFICE, 24, WHITES ROAD, CHENNAI – 600014Website: http://www.uiic.co.in  
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
26 
 
 
  
 
 
FAMILY MEDICARE POLICY SCHEDULE 
 
Policy Number 
 
 
Previous Policy No   
Name/ID Of Insured 
 
 
 
Tel. (O) 
  
Tel(R)  
  
Fax 
  
Business/Occupation 
None  
Mobile 
 
Email 
 
Period Of Insurance 
From --:-- Hrs of dd/mm/yyyy 
 
 
To Midnight of dd/mm/yyyy 
 Policy Type 
 
Individual Sum Insured Basis/ Family Floater Basis 
 
Insured Details 
 
 Sl 
no 
Insured Name 
Date of Birth 
(dd/mm/yyyyy) 
Gender 
Relation 
Occupation 
Pre-Existing 
Disease 
/Condition 
declared 
Nominee Name 
Nominee Relation 
1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Sl no 
Insured Name 
Sum Insured 
Premium 
Restore 
Premium if 
opted for 
Hospital Daily 
cash Limit (per 
day/per policy) 
Hospital Daily 
cash Premium 
if opted for 
Maternity Exp. & New 
Born Baby Cover 
Premium if opted for 
Pre-Existing 
Disease/ 
condition loading 
Inception 
Date of 
first policy 
1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
2  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
3  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
Total Basic Premium 
 
Net Premium 
 
Add Hospital Daily Cash Premium 
 
Add CGST@ 9% of Premium 
 
Add Maternity Expenses/ New Born 
Baby Cover Premium 
 
Add SGST @ 9% of Premium 
 
Add Restore Premium 
 
Total Premium Payable 
 
Add PED Loading 
 
Receipt No 
 
Less No Claim Discount 
 
Less Family Discount 
 
Receipt Date 
 
 
Agent Name 
 
Agent/Broker Code 
 
Agent Contact Number 
 
Dev Officer Code 
 
 
 Customer GST No.: 
  
Office GST No.: 
 
SAC Code: 
 
Invoice No. & Date: 
 
Amount Subject to Reverse Charges 
  
Anti-Money Laundering Clause:-In the event of a claim under the policy exceeding  1 lakh or a claim for refund of premium exceeding 1 lakh, the insured will 
comply with the provisions of AML policy of the company. The AML policy is available in all our operating offices as well as Company's web site.  
  
 
 
QR 
CODE 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
27 
 
Date of Proposal and Declaration:   
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned being duly authorised has hereunto set his/her hand at <Office Location> <Office Code> on this __ day of ,<Month> 
,<Year>. 
  
For and On behalf of  
United India Insurance Co. Ltd.  
  
Authorised Signatory. 
 
Affix   
Policy   
Stamp  
Here 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
28 
 
POLICY NO.:  
UIN: 
 Details of TPA 
Please contact the following TPA for Issue of Identity Cards, Cashless Approvals & Claims Settlement. 
  
Name of TPA 
 
 
Address 
 
 
Toll Free number 
 
 
Contact Details 
For General 
Enquiries 
For Cashless approval 
For Claim intimation 
For Grievances 
Telephone 
Numbers 
 
 
 
 
Email IDs 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
29 
 
ANNEXURE – 1 
 
FAMILY MEDICARE POLICY 
 
List of Non-Medical Expenses under this Policy – Payable/Not Payable 
 
List I – Optional Items 
 
Sr. No 
Item 
Payable / Not Payable 
1 
BABY FOOD 
Not Payable 
2 
BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 
Not Payable 
3 
BEAUTY SERVICES 
Not Payable 
4 
BELTS/ BRACES 
Payable for cases who have undergone surgery of thoracic or 
lumbar spine. 
5 
BUDS 
Not Payable 
6 
COLD PACK/HOT PACK 
Not Payable 
7 
CARRY BAGS 
Not Payable 
8 
EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 
Not Payable 
9 
FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT’S 
DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL) 
Not Payable 
10 
LEGGINGS 
Payable in case of varicose vein surgery  
11 
LAUNDRY CHARGES 
Not Payable 
12 
MINERAL WATER 
Not Payable 
13 
SANITARY PAD 
Not Payable 
14 
TELEPHONE CHARGES 
Not Payable 
15 
GUEST SERVICES 
Not Payable 
16 
CREPE BANDAGE 
Not Payable 
17 
DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 
Not Payable 
18 
EYELET COLLAR 
Not Payable 
19 
SLINGS 
Reasonable costs for one sling in case of upper arm fractures  is 
payable 
20 
BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING 
OF DONORS SAMPLES 
Part of Cost of Blood, not payable 
21 
SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE 
ALSO CHARGED 
Part of room charge not payable separately 
22 
Television Charges 
Payable under room charges not if separately levied 
23 
SURCHARGES 
Part of Room Charge, Not payable separately 
24 
ATTENDANT CHARGES 
Not Payable - Part of Room Charges 
25 
EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT 
WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE) 
Not Payable; however, Patient Diet as covered under clause 
V.1.A provided by hospital only is payable 
26 
BIRTH CERTIFICATE 
Not Payable 
27 
CERTIFICATE CHARGES 
Not Payable 
28 
COURIER CHARGES 
Not Payable 
29 
CONVEYANCE CHARGES 
Not Payable 
30 
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 
Not Payable 
31 
MEDICAL RECORDS 
Not Payable 
32 
PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 
Not Payable 
33 
MORTUARY CHARGES 
Payable up to 24 hours, shifting charges not payable 
34 
WALKING AIDS CHARGES 
Not Payable 
35 
OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSTDE 
THE HOSPITAL) 
Not Payable 
36 
SPACER 
Not Payable 
37 
SPIROMETRE 
Device not payable 
38 
NEBULIZER KIT 
Not Payable 
39 
STEAM INHALER 
Not Payable 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
30 
 
40 
ARMSLING 
Not Payable 
41 
THERMOMETER 
Not Payable 
42 
CERVICAL COLLAR 
Not Payable 
43 
SPLINT 
Not Payable 
44 
DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
Not Payable 
45 
KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED) 
Not Payable 
46 
KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER 
Not Payable 
47 
LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
Payable for cases who have undergone surgery of lumbar spine. 
48 
NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED 
CHARGES 
Payable for any ICU patient requiring more than 3 days in ICU, all 
patients with paraplegia/quadriplegia for any reason and at a 
reasonable cost of approximately Rs 200/- day 
49 
AMBULANCE COLLAR 
Not Payable 
50 
AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
Not Payable 
51 
ABDOMINAL BINDER 
Payable for cases who have undergone surgery of lumbar spine. 
52 
PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL 
NURSING CHARGES 
Payable in post-hospitalisation 
53 
SUGAR FREE Tablets 
Payable -Sugar free variants of admissible medicines are not 
excluded 
54 
CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are 
not payable, only prescribed medical 
pharmaceuticals payable) 
Payable when prescribed 
55 
ECG ELECTRODES 
Up to 5 electrodes are required for every case visiting OT or ICU. 
For longer stay in ICU, may require a change and at least one set 
every second day is payable. 
56 
GLOVES 
Sterilized Gloves payable / unsterilized gloves not payable 
57 
NEBULISATION KIT 
Payable reasonably if used during hospitalisation 
58 
ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED 
[DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, 
ETC] 
Not Payable 
59 
KIDNEY TRAY 
Not Payable 
60 
MASK 
Not Payable 
61 
OUNCE GLASS 
Not Payable 
62 
OXYGEN MASK 
Not Payable 
63 
PELVIC TRACTION BELT 
Payable in case of PIVD requiring traction 
64 
PAN CAN 
Not Payable 
65 
TROLLEY COVER 
Not Payable 
66 
UROMETER, URINE JUG 
Not Payable 
67 
AMBULANCE 
Payable 
68 
VASOFIX SAFETY 
Payable - maximum of 3 in 48 hours and then 1 in 24 hours 
 
 
 
List II – Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
 
Sr. No 
Item 
1 
BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 
2 
HAND WASH 
3 
SHOE COVER 
4 
CAPS 
5 
CRADLE CHARGES 
6 
COMB 
7 
EAU DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 
8 
FOOT COVER 
9 
GOWN 
10 
SLIPPERS 
11 
TISSUE PAPER 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
31 
 
12 
TOOTH PASTE 
13 
TOOTH BRUSH 
14 
BED PAN 
15 
FACE MASK 
16 
FLEXI MASK 
17 
HAND HOLDER 
18 
SPUTUM CUP 
19 
DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 
20 
LUXURY TAX 
21 
HVAC 
22 
HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
23 
AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
24 
IM IV INJECTION CHARGES 
25 
CLEAN SHEET 
26 
BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET 
27 
ADMISSION KIT 
28 
DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
29 
DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
30 
DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
31 
DAILY CHART CHARGES 
32 
ENTRANCE PASS / VISTOR’S PASS CHARGES 
33 
EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
34 
FILE OPENING CHARGES 
35 
INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) 
36 
PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 
37 
PULSE OXIMETER CHARGES  
 
List III – Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
 
Sr. No 
Item 
1 
HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 
DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations) 
3 
EYE PAD 
4 
EYE SHIELD 
5 
CAMERA COVER 
6 
DVD, CD CHARGES 
7 
GAUZE SOFT 
8 
GAUZE 
9 
WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 
ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 
MICROSCOPE COVER 
12 
SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONIC SCALPEL, SHAVER 
13 
SURGICAL DRILL 
14 
EYE KIT 
15 
EYE DRAPE 
16 
X-RAY FILM 
17 
BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 
COTTON 
19 
COTTON BANDAGE 
20 
SURGICAL  
21 
APRON 
22 
TORNIQUET 
23 
ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
32 
 
List IV – Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
 
Sr. No 
Item 
1 
ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGS 
2 
HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 
URINE CONTAINER 
4 
BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES 
5 
BIPAP MACHINE 
6 
CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS 
7 
INFUSION PUMP-COST 
8 
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE / SPIRIT / DISINFECTANTS ETC 
9 
NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES – DIETICIAN CHARGES, DIET CHARGES 
10 
HIV KIT 
11 
ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
12 
LOZENGES 
13 
MOUTH PAINT 
14 
VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 
ALCOHOL SWABS 
16 
SCRUB SOLUTIONS / STERILLIUM 
17 
GLUCOMETER & STRIPS 
18 
URINE BAG 
 
 
 
United India Insurance Company Limited 
Corporate Identity Number: U93090TN1938GOI000108 
Registered Office: 24 Whites Road, Chennai – 600014 
IRDAI REG NO.545 
Family Medicare Policy Wordings 
UIN: UIIHLIP22070V042122 
 
 
 
 
  Annexure-2 
The contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman offices are as below- 
 
Areas of Jurisdiction 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman 
Gujarat , UT of Dadra and 
Nagar Haveli, Daman and 
Diu  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan 
Prakash Building, 6th floor, Tilak Marg, Relief 
Road, Ahmedabad – 380 001. 
Tel No: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06. 
Email:bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in   
Karnataka 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan 
Soudha Building, PID No. 57-27-N-19 Ground 
Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, JP Nagar, Ist 
Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049.  
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in  
Madhya Pradesh and 
Chhattisgarh  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Janak 
Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar, 
Opp. Airtel Office, Near New Market, Bhopal – 
462 003. 
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202.  Fax: 0755 – 
2769203 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in  
Odisha  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 62, Forest 
park, Bhubneshwar – 751 009. 
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455. Fax: 0674 – 
2596429  
Email:bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in  
Punjab , Haryana, 
Himachal Pradesh, Jammu 
and Kashmir, UT of 
Chandigarh  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, S.C.O. No. 
101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, Batra Building, 
Sector 17 – D, Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468.  Fax: 0172 – 
2708274  
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in  
Tamil Nadu,   UT–
Pondicherry Town and 
Karaikal (which are part of 
UT of Pondicherry)  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Fatima 
Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, Anna Salai, 
Teynampet, Chennai – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284.  Fax: 044 – 
24333664 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in    
Delhi  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2/2 A, 
Universal Insurance Building, Asaf Ali Road, 
New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504.   
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in  
Assam , Meghalaya, 
Manipur, Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, 
Nagaland and Tripura  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan 
Nivesh, 5th Floor, Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. 
Road, Guwahati – 781001 (ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205. 
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in  
Andhra Pradesh, 
Telangana and UT of 
Yanam – a part of the UT 
of Pondicherry  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6-2-46, 1st 
floor, "Moin Court", Lane Opp. Saleem Function 
Palace, A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad 
- 500 004. 
Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122.  Fax: 040 – 
23376599 
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in  
Rajasthan 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan 
Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani Singh Marg, 
Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141 – 2740363.   
Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in  
Kerala , UT of  (a) 
Lakshadweep, 
(b) 
Mahe – a part of UT of 
Pondicherry  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd Floor, 
Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. 
Road, Ernakulam - 682 015. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338.  Fax: 0484 
– 2359336 
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in  
West Bengal, UT of 
Andaman and Nicobar 
Islands, Sikkim  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Hindustan 
Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 4, C.R. Avenue, 
KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340.  Fax: 033 - 
22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in  
istricts of Uttar Pradesh : 
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, 
Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, 
Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, 
Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, 
Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, 
Barabanki, Raebareli, 
Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, 
Amethi, Kaushambi, 
Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, 
Sultanpur, Maharajgang, 
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, 
Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, 
Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, 
Chandauli, Ballia, 
Sidharathnagar. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6th Floor, 
Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, Nawal Kishore Road, 
Hazratganj, Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331.  Fax: 0522 - 
2231310 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in  
Goa,  
Mumbai Metropolitan 
Region  
excluding 
Navi 
Mumbai & Thane 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 3rd Floor, 
Jeevan Seva Annexe, S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960.  Fax: 022 - 
26106052 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in  
State of Uttarakhand and 
the following Districts of 
Uttar Pradesh: 
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, 
Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, 
Kannauj, Mainpuri, 
Mathura, Meerut, 
Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, 
Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, 
Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, 
Shamli, Rampur, 
Kashganj, Sambhal, 
Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, 
Saharanpur 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Bhagwan 
Sahai Palace 4th Floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, 
Sector 15, Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-
201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253.  
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in  
Bihar, 
Jharkhand. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 1st 
Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building, Bazar Samiti 
Road, Bahadurpur, Patna 800 006. 
Tel.: 0612-2680952.  
Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in 
Maharashtra, 
Area of Navi Mumbai and 
Thane 
excluding Mumbai 
Metropolitan Region 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevan 
Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 
198, N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, Pune – 
411 030. 
Tel.: 020-41312555.   
Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in 
